from questioning our career choices to talking ourselves into dating someone to simply thinking twice about wearing those shoes, every young woman can relate to the constant mental back and forth that plays out in so much of our daily decision-making. to our own exhaustion, no matter how small that decision is, we tend to contrive dozens of potential outcomes. comedian iliza shlesinger has a term for this: girl logic.iliza, 34, has turned the concept of girl logic into a book with that very title, focusing on how many women seize on every detail  both at work and in their personal lives  that men oftentimes dont even notice. but she argues the complex and sometimes contradictory way we make choices can often give women an edge in a male-dominated world.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]the youngest person and only woman to win nbcs last comic standing, iliza captures millennial womens thought processes as she explores our oftentimes flawed fixation on having it all, including the perfect partner, job and body.i recently spoke to iliza about finding confidence and managing your inner-critic. heres what she said:girl logic lesson # 1: you are your own worst critichaving so-called girl logic means we are able to think from another persons perspective, argues iliza. on the flipside, that makes it easier for us to be self-critical.according to iliza, its important to remember that not everyone is judging you as much as you think. if you walk [into a room of people] and youre insecure about your dress, you eventually realize nobody really cares. and you probably look better than you think. were so hard on ourselves and theres a freedom in realizing that were our toughest critics, she told me.at the end of the day, all there is is making yourself happy, she added.girl logic lesson # 2: you wont win over everyonewere constantly taking in so much stimuli from our society be thick, but be thin. be sexy, but dont put it too much out there, iliza said. she believes this constant, contradictory messaging from society can take a toll on womens confidence.as she writes in her book, when you can analyze situations and figure out whats best for you, based on you and not some preconceived notion of what society expects, then nothing is a threat.in other words, you cant win over everyone and its useless to try. iliza encouraged young women to shed other peoples expectations and instead think, look, this is me, and if that upsets you then thats your own insecurity.girl logic lesson # 3: feeling entitled is a good thingcontrary to popular belief, iliza argued theres some value in feeling entitled.lliza has faced criticism amid her early success. people love to give a hot take, especially when a woman is succeeding... and oftentimes, they have no idea what went behind that. but as long as you are rooted in confidence and you produce, then it doesnt matter. it doesnt matter how you appear because people will love your product.iliza noted that feeling entitled has actually helped her career.if you think youre good enough, then you find it preposterous when somebody doesnt acknowledge thatthats propelled me in many ways -- maybe thinking i deserve things that i dont at some time. but im always willing to put in the work. and knowing that no matter who you are, you will never be the best in the room. but you wont be the worst in the room. theres a freedom in moving within the middle of that.daniela pierre-bravo is know your values millennial contributor. read more about her here. 