many women find it difficult to talk about money. from negotiating a salary to communicating financial expectations with a partner, they often find themselves struggling for the right words.but it doesnt have to be like that, says know your values mika brzezinski, who recently sat down with personal finance expert jean chatzky. the two discussed the best way to break down barriers between women and financial success.below are the five of the biggest takeaways from their discussion, which aired this week on the podcast hermoney with jean chatzky. 1. you have a responsibility to negotiateyes, were making progress toward equal pay, but we have a long way to go. one way to pave a better path: uphold your personal responsibility to negotiate your salary.brzezinski advised women to seek out female mentors, talk to fellow women colleagues about their salary and be ready to discuss what youre worth. sometimes management [executives and bosses] who happen to be male just need to hear from you; they cant read your mind, brzezinski said. men speak up. women need to speak up and we need to feel comfortable doing that, she said.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]] 2. support your female colleaguesbrzezinski explained that when women help other women negotiate better pay, it pays dividends toward the success of the company. look at our network, look at some of the new female talent that has come on board for morning joe, she said.so, whats the downside to helping other women get paid what theyre worth and ensuring they stick around? nothing at all. its a win-win for everyone, said brzezinski. when women arent happy with their pay, they will eventually go elsewhere or they will express their dissatisfaction with their pay to others. a little teamwork, however, can go a long way, she noted. 3. know that your company is lucky to have youbrzezinski and chatzky discussed an odd dynamic in the workplace: women who sometimes feel as though their company is doing them a favor by giving them a foot in the door. this can be particularly dangerous when it comes to sexual harassment in the workplace.if you are paid less and you feel like youre in there because of some fluke and youre the lucky one and someone sexually harasses you, you may not feel as comfortable saying, whoa, im a member of this team, i get paid just as much as you [or] i get paid more than you, you need to back off, brzezinski said. on the other hand, if you have a job that pays fairly, youre likely to feel more comfortable speaking up. you might also perform better in your job because you feel like a valued member of the team, said brzezinski.4. be intentional about the way you communicatein her upcoming book, the millennial challenge, brzezinski divulges strategies that can help millennials  and anyone, for that matter  to effectively communicate their worth. a lot of that comes down to intentional communications: from the power of posture and elegance -- to the power of a rich and robust voice and an ability to maintain eye contact. its also important to understand the power of not using your voice and staying in your lane, and then knowing when that lane has opened up for you. take verbal and nonverbal cues from managers, she said. 5. be proactive about your familys financeswhether youre discussing financial priorities within your marriage, long-term goals or even estate planning, its helpful to realize what you dont know and to seek the help of professional experts.communicating your own financial wishes with loved ones can also go a long way. brzezinski said she was recently inspired by her own father, who left a very thoughtful and detailed plan about the familys finances before his passing.the greatest gift someone can leave behind is to not create scenarios where theres stuff to fight over, she said.