think hard about the last time you asked for something at work -- a raise, a promotion, time off -- but didnt get it. were you under prepared? did you inadvertently say something offensive? if youve spent hours going over every word of your pitch and still cant pinpoint your mistake, chances are it isnt anything you said at all; its the way you said it. specifically, its what you did with your shoulders.we are shruggers, said former atf investigator and communications expert janine driver of this common move unconsciously used by many women. a shrug is uncertainty so, when we ask for something, we are hurting our message.driver recently sat down with msnbcs morning joe co-host mika brzezinski to discuss better alternatives to the shrug, moves that can help women project confidence. here are some gestures to practice before heading into that next meeting:[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]the steepleinstead of folding your hands on your lap, try propping your elbows on the table and bringing your hands up to meet in a point, like a church tower. it may seem like a minor change at first, but making sure your hands are visible goes a long way in terms of looking and feeling powerful, according to driver.if the pose feels familiar, theres a reason for that. guys do this one all the time, she added.the forehead stareweve all been told about the importance of eye contact. you may be surprised to learn that in confrontational situations, it can help you gain the upper hand if you shift your gaze a little higher.if someone is disrespectful to us, look at the forehead, said driver. breaking the eye contact and looking at the persons forehead is as if you are talking down to the person without being overtly aggressive.the elbow popif you want to go full liz taylor, try leaning back in your chair and draping one elbow over the back or arm rest, again making sure your hands are visible. this move channels some of the stars famous attitude.its casual, its confident, said driver of the pose. im taking up space and im saying, i belong here.