ahh, the challenges of a first job: impressing the boss, navigating office politics, building a professional wardrobe, the list goes on and on. for many recent college grads, getting the basics down can be so all-consuming that one of the things you should focus on goes overlooked  making the most of your first salary.if youre new to the workforce, i know what youre thinking - that youre so broke right now, youre just trying to get by. i hear that. (i lived on hot and sour soup and the free rice that came with it for a long time after graduation.) but im here to tell you that many of the seemingly small money decisions you make today can have a big difference in your long term financial future. heres how to put your first salary to work for you.1.) watch your expenseswhen you get that first salary, it feels so well-deserved, says abigail gunderson, certified financial planner at tanglewood total wealth management, a comprehensive wealth planning firm in houston, texas. but you cant go to starbucks every day and expect to reach your bigger financial goals. gunderson doesnt suggest depriving yourself of lifes small joys, rather just be aware that it all has a price tag - and an opportunity cost. the earlier you can start saving, the better off youll be, because of compounding interest. how much will that coffee be worth in 40 years if you invested that money instead?2.) take advantage of your companys retirement plan offerings - or create your ownif youre lucky enough to work for a company that offers a 401(k) plan, take advantage of it and any company match that may be offered, says anna colton, an executive for bank of america financial center sales &amp; merrill edge. if your company matches a percentage of what you put in, thats free money, she says. if your company doesnt offer a retirement savings plan, establish your own brokerage account with a company like schwab or vanguard, gunderson suggests. then you can automatically move $50 every pay period over to your account. treat it like a bill, only youre paying yourself.pay no attention to anyone who insists you should be setting aside a full 10% toward retirement when youre just starting out, says douglas boneparth, certified financial planner and co-author of the millennial money fix. that sounds - and may be - undoable. the worst thing you can do is let guilt over not saving enough make you postpone your goals. any amount you can save is great.3.) check in on your goals regularly, with the help of an experthow many times have you thought about a financial plan, but hesitated to get going? thats a trap a lot of us fall into, colton warns. its not about where you are right now, its about where you want to be in the future, she says. its a big mistake to think that a financial planner wont want to speak with you if you arent making six-figures. you should consider doing an annual financial check-up with your advisor, just as you would a health check-up with a doctor. automated solutions have made it easier than ever for us to save, but its important to check in with someone on a regular basis and make sure youre meeting your goals, colton says. (your retirement plan at work will likely have someone you can speak with for free.)4.) eliminate debtthe formula here is simple: start with credit cards, then move on to student loans, gunderson says. pay off the highest interest rate first. with credit cards, youre looking at 19-20 percent, and soon its going to seem like youll never get out from under it. the only thing more important than paying off all your debt is securing the free money you can get from matching 401(k) contributions and - if your company offers it - the free money that comes from your health savings account (more on this in a moment). make sure youre still saving enough to get those matching dollars (at most companies, thats 3%) and that should take priority over both student loans and credit cards, gunderson explains.5.) save for something important to youwhat do you really want to do with your life? do you want to take an international vacation every year or donate money to a museum or charity? consider starting a separate fund to finance the things that add meaning to your life, colton says. everyone has something thats important to them, that brings them joy, she says. its important to have the financial freedom to do those things. if youre not yet sure what might be significant to you, thats okay, too - put aside $50 a month, and you can figure it out over time.6.) build an emergency fundcars break, you lose your job, and things happen, gunderson says. what are you going to do with all the set bills that you have every month? saving six months worth of living expenses is ideal, but if that figure seems too daunting, save what you can to start (try for 3-5 percent of your salary until you reach your goal). eventually youll be in a position to cover all your expenses until you can get back on your feet. gunderson says.7.) open a health savings account (hsa)no matter how much youre making, youre going to be spending money on healthcare, explains michelle mckinnon,certified financial planner and senior wealth advisor for payne capital management in new york. health savings accounts allow you to set aside money for health-related expenses, before tax. for individuals just starting their careers, hsas can be especially beneficial since they stand to save you a couple of thousand dollars each year on taxes. plus, some companies offer incentives (i.e. free money) for participating. with an hsa, you can roll the money over from year to year - this is different from a flexible savings account (fsa) where you have to use the funds within the year, or lose them. not everyone is eligible for an has since you have to have a high deductible health insurance policy. contact your benefits office at your company and see if they offer one and if youre able to enroll.keep trying, even if you face setbacksas you grow your career and start down the path to financial health, know that its okay if you dont reach all your goals - you can change them anytime, and keep fighting for them. lets say your goal was to build a cash reserve in two years, but you find you couldnt save as much as you planned, boneparth says. if you cant adjust your spending behaviors, then you can push your goal from two years to four years. the only thing thats unacceptable is complaining.