clean eating is an easy concept and it focuses on basic, simply prepared foods. its all about real foods that are minimally processed and refined. but while the concept may be easy  what about putting it into practice in your daily life? try these easy hacks toward cleaner eating. since clean eating is not an all-or-nothing approach, start with one shortcut and build on your progress.limit processed and refined foodsthis includes foods with added salt, sugars and fat that often have long ingredient lists. look for foods the way they are found in nature, that is, not refined. for example, use brown rice instead of white rice that has the nutrient rich coating stripped off.stay hydratedwhile the latest guidelines rely on thirst to promote adequate hydration, most people forget to drink  or put it off. the best way to ensure sufficient fluids is to take a peek in the toilet! if your urine is pale yellow (the color of lemonade) youre in a good zone. if its any darker, drink up with water or other no-calorie drinks. when you return to the bathroom, take another look  and you can gauge whether you need to boost your fluid intake even more. and remember that most fruits and vegetables are nearly all water and serve as a good alternate when youre tired of plain h2o.eat plenty of colorful fruits and vegetablestheyre loaded with vitamins, minerals and antioxidants  so choose whichever produce you enjoy. mix and match for different colors  since each color provides different kinds of health-boosting antioxidants and nutrient profiles, including fiber. plus, theyre a great source of added fluids. if youre worried about waste  go for frozen fruits or vegetables and be sure to skip any added sugary syrups or sauces.focus on lean proteins, mixing plant and animal sourcesplant proteins are naturally lean, since plants dont have saturated, artery-clogging fats. look for soy, beans, nuts and other legumes. if youre a beginner to plant proteins, try soy-based beef and chicken patties. for animal proteins, look for fish, skinless poultry, and lean beef cuts, like round and sirloin. eggs and dairy are both solid animal protein sources. look for reduced or non-fat dairy products like milk, yogurt and cheese. if you choose to avoid dairy, look for alternatives like soy and almond milk, fortified with vitamin d and calcium.track your caffeine consumptionwhile caffeine can be a boost to mental focus and has health-promoting traits, more than 300 mg daily (largest size house coffee or two home mugs) can have some negative effects, like stomach upset or feeling jittery and anxious. drink your caffeine from sources in nature  like coffee or tea  and avoid caffeine sources in supplements, or power drinks.moderate your alcohol intakeif you enjoy alcohol, it can be part of clean eating  but its all about the amount. while moderate alcohol has some documented health benefits, a serving is not the size of your glass! for women, up to one serving a day is the recommended guideline  that is, one 12-ounce beer, 4 ounces of wine, or 1.5 ounces (a jigger) of spirits. and dont add alcohol as a health booster, if you dont already consume it!madelyn fernstrom, phd is the nbc news health editor. follow her on twitter @drfernstrom.