when wives earn more than husbands, neither partner likes to admit ita growing number of women earn more than their husbands. but according to a new paper from the census bureau, even as the number of female breadwinners increases, both husbands and wives find themselves feeling uncomfortable by the shift, often to the point of lying.the paper analyzed what participants told census surveyors about their earnings, compared with what their employers told the internal revenue service in tax filings.why women volunteer for tasks that dont lead to promotionsnew research from the harvard business review suggests that women are more likely to volunteer for non-promotable tasks: assignments that benefit the organization but likely dont contribute to career advancement and performance evaluation.for women, this can have serious consequences. if female employees are disproportionately burdened with tasks that have little visibility or impact, it will take them much longer to move forward in their careers. here are five ways to recover if you get lowballed in a negotiationknowing what to do when you feel ripped off in the context of a business venture can be extremely overwhelming. but if this has happened, here are five ways you can recover your leverage. reframing the conversation and the ability to pivot can have a big impact on your future growth and successes.tips for women heading to the executive suitecareer coach, carol kinsey goman interviews five senior leaders across different industries on what it takes to step into a senior executive position. these leaders give tangible advice on how to navigate to the top, including an understanding of how perception is often linked to success.motherhood brings the most dramatic brain changes of a womans lifeduring pregnancy, childbirth, and breast-feeding, women experience a flood of hormones that primes the brain for dramatic change in regions thought to make up the maternal circuit. these affect the regions of the brain that enable a mother to multitask to meet a babys needs, help her empathize with her infants pain and emotions, and regulate how she responds to positive stimuli or to perceived threats.please stop asking this unsettling question to women everywhereoften, women find themselves at the crossroads of having to choose between focusing on their career and the body-clock-is-ticking argument. the motherhood question or when are you having children? is actually a shaming tactic that we need to stop.