milk does do a body good - especially for the development and maintenance of strong bones and teeth. but milk is a health plus only if you can digest it readily. thats where a large part of the confusion comes into play.milk is a nutrient powerhouse. an 8-ounce glass has 8 grams of complete protein (the same as an egg) and 300 mg of calcium, about one-third of your recommended amount. plus, its naturally-occurring and not added as a supplement. milk is also especially rich in vitamin b12 and potassium. all milk is fortified (its added separately) with vitamin d and helps boosts calcium absorption.the fat in all dairy products (like other animal products) including milk, is artery-clogging saturated fat. so while national guidelines recommend a life-long limitation of saturated fat, the good news is that the nutrients in all types of milk are the same, regardless of fat content. so look for reduced fat (1 percent or 2 percent) or non-fat milks for drinking or using in your cereal. try using whole milk in your coffee and in recipes, instead of light cream.while some people get digestive upset from milk, either early in life, or later, much of the population can digest milk just fine. this upset is almost always from the lactose (milk sugar) which needs the enzyme lactase to be digested. people who lack that enzyme or dont have enough of it experience lactose intolerance. its quite rare to have a true milk allergy, where milks protein (casein) cannot be digested. but its definitely worth a bit of trial and error to see if milk (or its other dairy cousins yogurt and cheese) can continue to be part of your daily food intake.and its not only the calcium and vitamin d that support bone and tooth health. the components that make milk appear white  called milk solids  also contribute to the maintenance of strong bones and teeth.there can be confusion from the fact that some digestive tracts cant tolerate milk. if you have one of these, then you want to avoid it. but to obtain the health benefits of dairy, you might try yogurt or cheese as alternatives before ditching dairy altogether. in fact, many people can tolerate one cup of yogurt daily, even if theyre lactose intolerant, because the bacterial components of yogurt contain lactase, the enzyme that digests lactose.as for other milk alternatives  like nut, soy, and vegetable types  the fda is now trying to enforce a labeling law indicating milk must come from a lactating animal (like a cow or goat). as a result, labels for almond, soy, coconut, hemp, and other milks will change to an alternate term. a different label might help consumers understand the differences better, as the plant milks are typically very low in protein. even the highest protein source  soy milk  has half the protein of cows milk and calcium. and while these can be fortified with nutrients to resemble cows milk, these add-in nutrients are the same as taking any other supplement by mouth.cows milk is a healthy choice, if it works for you. if you dont drink milk (or consume dairy products) make sure your alternatives provide plenty of protein, calcium and vitamin d.milk has a taste thats familiar and loved from toddlerhood. and its got a powerful set of nutrients that should encourage you to make milk intake a lifelong habit to help support healthy bones and teeth. and if you are lactose-intolerant, try a lactose-free milk, like fairlife or lactaid for all of the benefits of milk without the lactose.madelyn fernstrom, phd is the nbc news health editor. follow her on twitter @drfernstrom.