at one point or another, weve all struggled with making our voice heard, not letting a no stop you and bringing our authentic self to the table. shelley zalis, ceo, the female quotient, sat down with aisha tyler, best-selling author, comedian, emmy-award winning talk show host of the talk, podcaster, director and activist. here is the advice aisha shared with the girls lounge community at sxsw 2018 on driving diversity, getting over fear, and making your biggest goals happen.on getting more diversity in the mediai think the responsibility really lies on women and people of color and people who are underrepresented to keep telling their stories, because unfortunately no one changes out of the goodness of their hearts. change will really lie in women refusing to take no for an answer.on getting what you wantif you really want something, choose to fight for it  dont resign yourself to fight for it. realize that its going to be a battle and then get to work. we need to see where we are, but were never going to get there by just thinking about it or looking at it. we have to be taking steps every single day to move towards change.on paving the wayevery day i get up and im not just fighting for space for myself, but im trying to create a very wide wake for people who are going to come behind me, because women came before me and they made a space for me. its my job to make a space for the next generation.on being yourselfim just trying to be myself unapologetically every single day. even if its controversial, even if it doesnt fit a mold. i think especially if youre a woman of color or if youre a woman in the lgbt community, people are telling you this is the way to represent the gay community or this is the way to represent the black community. i would advise that the way to represent your community is to be yourself without apology, and not adhere to somebody elses standards of whats right for your group.on getting over fearmy philosophy  is just to do it. dont worry about whether youre going to fail. dont worry about whether people are going to like it. just satisfy yourself creatively and everybody else can go to hell.on getting things doneits not inspiration that matters, its execution. just get up and get to it  the only difference between the people that we see out there who are rich and running the world and us is they just got up in the morning and started executing their to-do list, and we got up the morning and started watching netflix. so stop watching netflix and start executing. that is the secret.on hearing nodont be so rigid that you cant see the flaws in your own design, but dont be so flimsy in your conviction that a single no shuts you down. if someone says no, dont freak out. just go. what is it theyre saying no to? what is it about this thats not working? crowdsource some input. do an informal focus group. believe in yourself. just keep betting on yourself, and then be your own best critic and be excellent every day.on failureyou should be running headlong into failure at breakneck speed, because its the only way that you learn. no one ever learns from winning.this article first appeared on the female quotient.for more advice, tips and inspiration like this, sign up for the know your value newsletter and follow know your value on facebook, twitter and instagram.