just days after it happened, the u.s. open final between serena williams and naomi osaka has already solidified its place as one of the most notable controversies in sports.williams was fined $17,000  and lost the match  after chair umpire carlos ramos issued her three code violations in saturdays match. first, ramos issueds williams a warning, citing her for receiving coaching via hand signals. williams, upset by the call, demanded an apology and later smashed her racket on the court, resulting in another violation that lost her a point. williams responded by calling ramos a thief, and the umpire docked her a game for verbal abuse.osaka went on to win the second set and thus the match. but the story didnt end there.the match ignited a great debate: was williams right, or was the umpire? some applauded williams post-game statement that the umpires actions were sexist; others dismissed the sexism claims, or agreed with williams sentiment but not her approach. according to the times of london, other umpires are reportedly discussing boycotting serena williams future matches.to twin sisters jocelyne lamoureux-davidson and monique lamoureux-morando  know your value contributors and u.s. womens hockey olympic gold medalists  the incident is indicative of larger gender disparities in sports.you can argue that [williams] should or should not have better kept her composure, but that isnt the real issue at hand  its whether a man would have received the same treatment, jocelyne lamoureux-davidson told know your value. theres a perception that women need to behave. yet in, say, baseball, you see guys quite literally screaming in an umpires face  it takes a lot for them to get ejected. if you saw that from any woman athlete in any sport it would be considered unacceptable.in support of williamsbillie jean king, the famed former no. 1 tennis pro who won the battle of the sexes against bobby riggs in 1973, tweeted similar sentiments the night of the match and penned an op-ed in the washington post the following day.on social media, users circulated videos of men tennis pros and other athletes erupting in anger at referees yet receiving little or no punishment. for example: espn host jay williams posted a video of roger federer berating an umpire during the 2009 u.s. open mens final. do you have any rules in there? federer said. dont tell me to be quiet, ok? when i want to talk, ill talk, all right? federer was fined $1,500.former tennis pro james blake tweeted that he had gone unpunished for saying worse things to an official.\"you also want to give credit where credit is due, said lamoureux-davidson. during her post-match interview, serena said many times that naomi did a great job, and she really did. yet the conversation hasnt been about naomis win at all, which is unfortunate.\"williams got part of it wrongone of the most famous woman tennis legends, however, disagrees with williams. martina navratilova wrote in the new york times that a gendered double standard does exist, but she insisted williams also got part of it wrong. i dont believe its a good idea to apply a standard of if men can get away with it, women should be able to, too. rather, i think the question we have to ask ourselves is this: what is the right way to behave to honor our sport and to respect our opponents?other media outlets published similar opinion pieces: usa todays headline states williams diminished herself, while the guardians sportblog said williams was right about womens treatment but wrong on saturday. the post added: by conflating her own dilemma with a wider issue and claiming to champion the cause of women in sport  she shifted the blame for her own misdemeanours, and their consequences, on to an official who was powerless to reply.for its part, the international tennis federation formally backed ramos on monday, saying he acted with \"professionalism and integrity. ramos did speak briefly to the portuguese newspaper tribuna expresso on tuesday. im fine, given the circumstances, he told the publication. it is a delicate situation, but umpiring a la carte does not exist. dont worry about me.a conversation that wouldnt otherwise be happeningits a nuanced debate that has now garnered mainstream attention, but both of the lamoreaux twins pointed out this fight is not new for williams: when you look at serena and [sister] venuss careers over the decades, its easy to forget all theyve had to go through as not only female but also african-american female athletes, monique lamoureux-morando told know your value. serena in particular has had to face situations like this before over and over again, and as an athlete that is frustrating. she hasnt always been the most liked athlete, yet shes still willing to create a lot of conversation that wouldnt otherwise be happening.lamoureux-davidson agreed: from a tennis standpoint, i hope this creates more respect for female players. [williams] pointed to so many double standards in her post-match interview and i really hope it gets the attention it deserves. williams specifically called out an august code violation levied on frances aliz cornet, who jogged to the sidelines at her u.s. open match and briefly removed her shirt to fix it after she realized she had put it on backward. backlash ensued  men, including grand slam champion novak djokovic, have taken off their shirts while sitting next to the court  and tournament officials later apologized, saying cornet had broken no rules.what it comes down to is that people dont even realize they expect women athletes to act or look a certain way, lamoureux-morando said. even off the rink, its so clear in the comments we get from people when our team is traveling together and were recognized. you guys are much smaller than we thought youd be. wow, you actually have all your teeth. you laugh it off at first, and then you think: wait, thats definitely not what they would say to a man. its all these individual things that add up.for williams, its all added up to far too much  and she plans to fight for herself and others.in a press conference after the match, williams stood by her statements to the umpire and added: im going to continue to fight for women  the fact that i have to go through this is just an example for the next person who has emotions  theyre going to be allowed to do that because of today. maybe it didnt work out for me, but its going to work out for the next person.