women lead parade of victories to help democrats win the housewomen played a crucial role during this weeks midterm elections both as candidates and activists. their involvement helped the democratic party take control of the house of representatives and resulted in several historic milestones. ayanna pressley of massachusetts became the first woman of color in her states congressional delegation. rashida tlaib of michigan and ilhan omar of minnesota became the first muslim women in congress. deb haaland of arizona became the first native american woman in congress.what you can learn from this family of multi-generational founderswomaze, an app focused on self-empowerment for women, features ways for women to focus on mental health, body image, relationships, spirituality and self-care. and its run entirely by four women in the same family between the ages 17 to 52. forbes profiled the wiser family, and its members shared tips for those considering running a company with their family. womaze has shown me that there is nothing more powerful than a group of women with one shared mission, said hannah wiser, 17. when you find the people who share your goals, hopes, and dreams, hold onto them. for me, they just happened to be my family.women are placing their i voted stickers on susan b. anthonys gravewomen living near rochester, new york, flocked to the polls on election day and then visited the grave of susan b. anthony to pay homage to the suffragist. dozens of i voted stickers adorned anthonys gravestone on nov. 6. one woman expressed her thanks to susan b. anthony and then tweeted, i cannot even imagine a world in which i would not have the right to votesaudi arabia was the last place in the world to allow women to drive. manal al-sharif helped change thatmanal al-sharif made history when she posted a video online of herself driving in saudi arabia in 2011, which was illegal. the daring move sparked the womens fight for the right to get behind the wheel in her country. this week, al-sharif, 39, was picked by glamour as on of its 2018 women of the year. reflecting on her activism, she told the magazine that she was always curious as a little girl. i was always questioning: why are there no women leaders? we were invisible in my society, and that bothered me so much, she said.