while many job applications have the word optional next to the field that asks for a cover letter, it shouldnt be overlooked. after all, a cover letter is intended to show you off and captivate a hiring manager, kind of like a movie trailer. its meant to tease and entice the recruiter or hiring manager to keep reading and be so interested in you that they simply cannot put down your resume. think: personable and professional.some of the best cover letters tell interesting stories about the candidate and help them to be seen as a good culture fit for a company. recruiters always remember the personal side of cover letters  this is when you become more than just another applicant, says career expert heather huhman. they connect your experiences with your name because youre giving them another dimension of you, sharing what makes you unique.given the importance of a cover letter, you cannot afford to blow it. once youve got a working draft, its time to grab your red pen. here are 15 words and phrases that are simply dragging your cover letter down. cut em! take the expert advice below to craft the best cover letter possible and let your personality, not robotic prose, shine through.1. to whom it may concerngeneric salutations, while professional, can be a bit sterile. do a little digging to find the name of the hiring manager or the recruiter. lets say you discover an opening for an electrical engineer position at an engineering organizations website. the position description indicates the employee will report to the lead electrical engineer. you decide (initially) to bypass the companys automated application system so you can customize your communications, advises jacqui barrett-poindexter, master resume writer. you sail over to linkedin and begin researching. use the advanced search feature and type in name of company for the company name, lead electrical engineer for keywords and 64152 for a zip code for greater kansas city (where the company headquarters and this position are located) and click enter. your results will appear.2. thinking outside of the boxrecruiters read thousands of cover letters and resumes. its their job. so try hard to make reading your cover letter a treat. career coach angela copeland says, more specifically, stay away from phrases that are known to annoy hiring managers, such as heavy lifting or think outside the box or game-changer. be creative instead of using meaningless buzzwords.3. im not sure if you knowwhen it comes to todays job search process, another thing to remember is your online footprint, says copeland. phrases like this one underestimate a recruiters ability to google and may come across as naive. hr professionals and recruiters do their due diligence on you. trust us, they know. in a way, your google search results are a lot like the modern day cover letter. after an employer reads your cover letter, they will also google you. beat them to the punch and google yourself. be sure youre comfortable with the information that shows up on the first two pages of the google search results. look through social media, photos and any other websites that show up when you search for yourself.4. insider jargonjob seekers should try to minimize phrases that are very industry-specific, especially if theyre switching industries, advises copeland. although these phrases may sound impressive within one industry, they will most likely confuse your hiring manager in the new industry you want to switch to.5. claims without evidenceinstead of simply saying youre good at what you do, huhman advises providing a valuable anecdote. lets say youre applying for a marketing director position. among other aspects in the description, the job requires several years of marketing experience, a deep knowledge of lead generation and strong communication skills. describe how, in your previous role as a marketing manager, you ran several campaigns for your clients and exceeded their expectations of lead generation (with specific numbers, if possible), and how you also trained and mentored new associates on how to manage their own accounts, which improved client retention rates. in other words, show how effective you have been in the past. your anecdote is accomplishing a lot at once  its demonstrating one of your top hard skills, lead nurturing, and showcasing how you can collaborate with trainees, communicate effectively and educate new employees on processes and client relations, says huhman. youre proving that you can meet the communication standards and marketing knowledge theyre seeking.6. lovecut the millennial speak. you shouldnt just say that you want the job or that you love your industry. you have to show your passion, says huhman. share why your career path best suits you and how your love for your work drives and motivates you. for example, answer some questions about what made you want to enter the field, how your personality helps you succeed and what past experiences influenced your career decisions.7. liesembellishing in a cover letter is one way to set yourself up for letting down your future employer once youve been hired, warns huhman. steer clear of touting skills you dont really possess or overselling your impact on a key project at your current employer. the best-case scenario is that lying on a cover letter creates uncomfortable situations. worst case scenario? [youll lose the] job because [you are] not the candidate they were looking for.8. flatterywhen youre looking for a job, do your best to bring your authentic self to the table. as the old saying goes, people hire people. often, youre hired because the hiring manager likes you  not just because you can do the work, says copeland. nobody likes insincere flattery. it leaves an impression that you arent authentic and therefore cant be trusted. in business, especially in an employee/employer relationship, trust is paramount. avoid being insincere, and focus on building a true relationship with your future hiring manager.9. please feel freeending your cover letter with a clear call-to-action is key, but instead of being gentle, be direct. show your confidence and prove to the recruiter that you know you wrote a compelling cover letter by wrapping up with a more self-assured request for an in-person interview or phone screen.10. dynamicget away from stuffing cover letters full of clichd phrases and think clear, honest and impactful. think in terms of telling a story, says resume expert anish majumdar. youre not a dynamic, agile leader who can deliver rapid marketing and biz dev roi in rapidly-changing environments. instead, you are someone who thrives on helping companies more fully realize their vision, and have some amazing successes on the marketing and business development front that youd like to discuss.11. significantinstead of tiptoeing around the impact youve had at your current company with words like significant, measurable or huge, get specific. nicole cox, chief recruitment officer at national recruiting firm decision toolbox, advises job seekers to, substantiate your accomplishments with numbers. some recruiters prefer to see actual numbers (such as cut manufacturing costs by $500,000), while others prefer percentages (cut manufacturing costs by 15 percent). either way, provide enough context to show the impact. if your objective was to cut manufacturing costs by 10 percent, make it clear that you exceeded the goal.12. really, truly, deeplyflowery language and excessive adverbs can come off as insincere. dont get me wrong, you need to share your accomplishments in your cover letter. nobody else will do it for you. but, you want to come across as confident, not arrogant, says copeland. fluffy jargon will risk turning off the hiring manager.13. cut, copy &amp; pasteresist the temptation to write a cover letter that regurgitates what youve outlined in your resume. instead, recognize the opportunity that a cover letter presents. use the cover letter as an opportunity to highlight the parts of your resume that align to the job, says copeland. and, add things you dont normally include in your resume that are relevant to the work. for example, i once coached a job seeker who was a university administrator. he was interested to work for a large hotel chain. although he didnt have direct hotel experience, his hobbies included both real estate investing and managing a fitness franchise location. this information was critical to him landing a job with the large hotel company.14. self-starter, detail-oriented, and forward-thinkerthese are whats known as frequent offenders amongst cover letter and resume experts. they are overused and carry little weight these days. treat a cover letter as a chance to make a human connection, not a formality, says majumdar. what gets you excited about this job? what have you been up to recently that theyd find interesting? what should they know about you that they couldnt discern by reading your resume? all great points to touch on in this letter.15. synonyms out of a thesauruswhile it may be tempting to head to thesaurus.com to add a few high-brow words and smart-sounding phrases, resist the temptation. be yourself. be honest. this is a prime opportunity to showcase skills, says majumdar. words like change, execute, communicates and relationship building will all get the job done effectively when paired with strong anecdotes and authenticity.this article first appeared on glassdoor.com. 