the holidays are a harbinger of good cheer. holiday office parties, on the other hand, are notorious for transforming mild-mannered accountants and meek managers into booze-fueled party minions with all the sound and fury of a disney christmas parade gone wrong.want to avoid cringe-worthy moments at your next holiday party? youll need to brush up on the finer points of workplace wisdom and time-honored etiquette to ensure the conversations you have at work in the days following your party arent one long twinkle-light string of im sorrys and i dont know what i was thinking.how to dress: keep it classyexperts across the board are united in their opinions about several aspects of office parties, attire included.lisa m. grotts, a san francisco-based etiquette expert, said your holiday party isnt your chance to go overboard with gaudy outfits.just because an office function is after work hours doesnt mean its an invitation to dress flashy or wear a revealing outfit, grotts said. skirts should hit your knee and nothing should be too tight. skip the cleavage-bearing tops.we heard the same sentiment from jacquelyn youst, a pennsylvania-based etiquette consultant.office holiday parties are an extension of the office. this is not the time or place to wear your short skirt and low-cut blouse, youst said. maintain a professional level of decorum.this isnt your chance to push your im casual so i dress casual agenda, says laura handrick, an hr analyst at fit small business.this is a time for your co-workers to see how you look all cleaned up, handrick said. if youre a plumber, like my husband, wear non-work slacks and iron them. wear a shirt with a collar, more like youre heading to a golf club than a bbq.worried about whether youll be under- or over-dressed? read the invitation, ask your coworkers what theyre wearing and go from there, said new york times best-selling workplace author joseph grenny.ask around to find out what others are wearing. the invitation may suggest the attire, but you never know how the suggestion will be translated, grenny said. check with your co-workers, then dress slightly above average.how to drink: keep it at twothis is the section youve probably been waiting for; all the good horror stories are usually the handiwork of booze and beer. as humorous as these stories can be, jobs and reputations are on the line when youre four sazeracs deep and ready to air your grievances.carlota zimmerman, a career expert based in los angeles, said you can give yourself a head start by eating before you arrive.even half a sandwich and a protein smoothie will work, zimmerman said. just get something inside you so that the first martini wont have you self-righteously glaring at your boss as you mentally assemble your declaration of independence.many of the experts we talked with agree: keep yourself to two drinks.two drinks are acceptable, no more, youst said. this ensures that you remain in control and do not do or say anything you will regret.while most of us are able to handle two drinks  beer, especially  zimmerman says people will take notice if you make frequent trips to the watering hole.dont presume that your colleagues and managers wont notice if you make six trips to the bar, [even] if you can hold your booze like a statue, she said. stop after two and drink water. the next day you want people to remember you for how charming you were, not your ability to hold 15 gin and tonics.handrick had the best summary of the two-drink limit: one drink makes you fun, two drinks make you silly and three drinks make you stupid.how to converse: keep it cordialoffice holiday parties require conversational skills  introvert or not, youre probably going to be forced to talk with someone you dont know that well.the rules for conversation are essentially the same as drinking: moderation wins. dont get too deep and dont come off as too superficial.appropriate conversation is any compliment related to the holiday outfit others have chosen or any topic related to the holidays, family time or time off, handrick said. will you get to see your mom this christmas in upstate new york? is fine.as far as mentalities go, look at this as less of a required social event and more of a chance to get to know your co-workers better, even if the conversations are kept light.use the office holiday party to connect with colleagues and build working relationships, youst said. keep conversation about vacation travels, childrens achievements, etc. be mindful not to get too personal or discuss divorces or health problems.and what about that clan of boozy bros in the corner engaging in utterly impolite conversation? greg jenkins, a partner at long beachs bravo productions, said stay away.refrain from any off-color remarks, even if others engage in risqu dialogue or indecent statements, jenkins said. and avoid conversations that are political or religious, as well as those that get into gossip.when to leave: read the roomonce youve had your chance to have a couple of drinks and engage in conversation, you may be ready to head home or to another party.if the second party is better than the first, dont mention that to your colleagues, grenny said. and if youre worried about leaving too early, gauge the atmosphere.when it comes to leaving, take your cue from the majority, he said. leave when most people are leaving.saying thank you: the final stepwhether you loved your holiday party or hated it, many of our experts said that expressing your gratitude about the party is a professional and polite way to acknowledge the time and money they put into the party.amber hunter, an employee experience director at a plus benefits, said that you can leave a lasting impression on your bosses if you let them know you enjoyed yourself and appreciated the companys efforts to plan a holiday party.send a quick email or thank you note to your company leaders after the party, hunter said. it will go a long way.this article first appeared on glassdoor.com. 