one of the top contenders for 2018s informal song of the summer wasnt actually one song  it was three. rapper travis scotts sicko mode is a five-minute voyage through three sections, each with a distinct beat and hook; the parts swerve and crash into each other, creating a distractible but thrilling whole.when you listen to scott and guest artist drake taking turns yelling like a light, you probably wont think of paul mccartney, however. its not likely that scott was thinking about the former beatle, either, when he penned lyrics about cognac and infinity pools.but sicko modes sprawling structure owes a debt to mccartney, who has helped popularize the medley format  in the process elevating it into an art form of its own. recognized publicly or not, mccartneys use of the medley has not only led to some of his best work, but also has informed the songwriting of countless other songwriters of the past and present. indeed, the 76-year-old icon has been stringing together morsels of ingenuity for 50 years  a trend that continues on his newest album, egypt station, which arrived last week and contains two six-plus-minute voyages.obviously, medleys existed before mccartney began exploring them in depth in the late 60s, but they mostly fell into two categories: extremely similar songs being performed as one  like little richards kansas city / hey hey hey hey (later covered by the beatles)  or in suites inspired by musical theater or operatic traditions (like in west side story). mccartneys innovation, alongside co-conspirators john lennon and producer george martin, was to weave together pop songs that were compositionally and narratively separate but thematically linked. as seen on the opening and closing salvos of sgt. peppers lonely hearts club band, these mutant song structures built blooming fictional worlds and corralled the increasingly divergent writing styles of lennon and mccartney.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]when the beatles fell apart in 1969, mccartney had the idea to assemble some of the bands most intriguing leftover demos into a collage. the result, the suite on side two of abbey road, is one of the most revered stretches of pop music ever recorded. but unlike the whos tommy  another piece of seamless music which arrived four months earlier and was driven by a twisting plot  the abbey road suite is bound simply by shrewd musical connections. the suite suggested the future of rock could have both lofty and disparate aims  and that could refuse to be beholden to tidy or even coherent verse-chorus-verse packages.what some called bloat others called majesty. in the coming years, pink floyd would rarely put out a song that wasnt connected to its adjacent one on record, while prog rock groups like rush toyed with increasingly byzantine song structures. mccartney, meanwhile, stayed at the forefront after going solo, splicing together microhooks to form long and winding journeys. unlike the snippets on abbey road, which all possessed a similar even-keeled warmth, his new packages contained stranger and stranger segments; the results were puzzling on first listen but coalesced with grace.perhaps the best example is uncle albert/admiral halsey, the centerpiece on mccartneys controversial 1971 album ram, which was reviled upon release but has since been widely hailed as a progenitor of indie pop. the five-minute song enters as a meek, rain-soaked apology before stepping into a sprightly and pompous march and then ending with an absurdist, helium-fueled chase sequence. its messy and disorienting; its also euphoric and intense.as mccartney continued to create labyrinthian treatises  from band on the run to picassos last words (drink to me) to live and let die  a crop of artists emerged that eagerly professed their fealty to his innovative mania, from bruce springsteen to billy joel to queen. joel wrote perhaps the most overt homage with scenes from an italian restaurant, which he said was directly inspired by the abbey road suite.but mccartneys influence wasnt limited to rock. thirty years after rock chased its heightened artistic ambitions, hip-hop did the same: the turn of the 1990s saw a generation of musicians, from public enemy to de la soul to the beastie boys, experimenting with increasingly fragmented song parts and modes of sampling. the beastie boys aptly named album pauls boutique, in particular, is credited with changing hip-hop with its schizophrenic sampling techniques. and any doubt that it fell into mccartneys lineage was erased with the albums sixth song, the sounds of science  in which the group directly sampled the medleys from both abbey road and sgt. peppers.this year, the traces of this strand of mccartneys musical dna can be found all over the pop world, if you listen intently enough. while travis scott hops between melodies, the rapper tierra whack took the medley to its logical extreme, creating an album of 15 one-minute snippets. and mitskis be the cowboy features bite-sized songs that flow into each other; theyre also rife warm, propulsive piano parts and wonky chord changes.but you could argue that the best medley of the year still belongs to mccartney. the last song on egypt station, hunt you down / naked / c-link, deserves to be on any future mccartney box set as it races from mindless bop to vulnerable confession to instrumental ooze. its a reminder of how hes taught musicians of all stripes to expand their song time lengths, and more importantly, their ambition.