how many times have you sat with somebody and theyre looking at their phone? its so rude, but thats whats happening to a generation of children with their parents.our mothers were, for most of us, our first teachers: we learned everything from them, and we patterned ourselves after them. but now we see moms with their babies, and theyre on their phones. so much about parenting a baby is looking them in the eyes, though, and phones get in the way of that.if our children spend their time looking at us looking our phones  at ourselves on our phones, for that matter  scrolling constantly all day, its telling them that they should do it, too. but the problem is bigger than that: im mortified by what i see on a daily basis on peoples social media profiles. theres an obsession with other peoples personal lives, and people are obsessed with themselves, which children cant help but pick up on.its a runaway train and nobodys talking about it.as a sober woman of 20 years, one thing i tell parents is that, if the first thing you do when youre celebrating something is to go have a bottle of champagne, or if you have a terrible day at work and go home to your family and say, \"oh my god, it was a terrible day at work, i need a drink,\" dont be surprised if your young person gets drunk at a party. dont be surprised because theyve seen you do it; how you use your phone, and how often you use your phone, is no different.you really have to put your phone down, because whats bad for you is bad for your kids. we see so many young people who are dysmorphic, who look in the mirror and are not satisfied with what they see.it begins with compare and despair: think about how it feels when you, as an adult, compare your life to those you see in your instagram feed. it feels like youre not having fun like they are, youre not eating food the way they all are, you dont look the way they all do. apps have given us this idea that we can alter ourselves that you alone are not enough, that your being needs to be altered with a bunny face or a chipmunk, with a new voice, with a face that has no blemishes.if you turn off the phone, at least then you will not have these images constantly served to you that make you feel like you are not enough. self-acceptance is the key to being a grounded human being: this is me, this is my body, this is the body that god gave me. the whole goal of a self development is to actually be in your feet, to be where your feet are, to be in your body. then, you need self knowledge, and the acceptance of who you are, what youre capable of doing and what youre not capable of doing.your phone addiction is something you can change. insist on unplugging, and include your spouse, if you have one. commit to walking in your house with your family and turning off your phone. can you do it? because if you cant do it, your kids cant do it. and you cant demonstrate that behavior, then dont be surprised when youre sitting at dinner and your kids looking down at their phone. the phone isnt going to teach them to put it down; you have to.i do believe the solution to kids obsessions with their phones starts with a look in the mirror. the problem is you and your addiction to your phone; its not your kid. your kid is simply doing what he or she has seen you do.this is why i wrote my latest book, \"me, myselfie &amp; i\": i posted a photograph of myself on instagram around christmas with a caption that said, \"mommy got a selfie stick,\" and a friend of mine said, \"is that a new childrens book?\" within a few hours, it was, because its something id been thinking about for a long time.i wrote it as a childrens book, and made it the parent who becomes obsessed with themselves, because, if this was an 8-year-old kid on their phone and the parents were the ones trying to shut it down, it would become a power struggle. but by putting the phone in the parents hand, in a medium designed to be read by children or to children by a parent or a loved one or an adult, you show through the eyes of a child that all children want is a connection with their parent.kids already know when their parents arent paying attention, and i think that kids, when they read the book, will then be the ones to say, \"mom, put your phone away.\" its a cautionary tale  a funny, silly one that highlights the exaggerated parts of this phenomenon of self obsession, but its the beginning of a conversation that needs to be had.as told to think editor megan carpentier, edited and condensed for clarity.