my family moved to california from oklahoma when i was a junior in high school; we knew nothing about scientology or l. ron hubbard. but then my mother started working at a management consulting company where they used hubbards secular courses on how to build up your business. at first, she told them that she wasnt interested in anything to do with the church but, the longer that you are around scientologists, the more your world starts being consumed with scientology. eventually, something comes up in your personal life and they say, well, why dont you read this book?for me, that happened when i was 18: i was in a really bad car accident that i should not have survived, and started thinking \"why am i here?\" my mom walked into my hospital room with a scientology minister who told me that accidents and illnesses happen when you have people that are holding you back in your life.when youre 18 years old, of course, it feels like everyone is holding you back, so he sounded right. thats how you start to go down this path.i feel now like they target younger people  people like me who are nave, people who are looking for something different, or for answers. they have an answer for everything; they have courses on acting, on communication, on relationships. in my case, for instance, i did not have a boyfriend in high school and i didnt do a lot of dating. then, when i had my first experience with a girl, it seemed so right, but i was embarrassed to tell anybody about it. this was the late 80s, and wed moved from oklahoma; i hadnt known anyone who was gay. still, when i talked about it at the church, i didnt feel that i was confessing some sin, i just felt like i was just talking about something about which i was confused, which the church encourages.immediately, though, i was told to read what l. ron hubbard said about homosexuality: he labeled gay people on a scale of so-called emotional states, and being gay was at the lowest level a person could be. i looked at that and said, oh my god. i dont want to be thought of as a degraded person. i want to be able to have a real life and a real family.i didnt see acceptance anywhere; i was cloistered in a group that was not accepting of my sexuality. the church has this rhetorical sleight of hand: they will say, right to your face, we take no stance on your relationship, but you should read this policy, and you should read what l. ron hubbard says in this book. the words that they say and the intention behind them are two totally different things. you have to fit in a certain box, and that box is a man and a woman, married.i began, then, to think that maybe i was a late bloomer, or maybe there was something wrong with me hormonally and i could just go get my hormones checked, and somehow i would find the right guy and fall in love. and i did get married to a man, and have children.but years later, in my 40s, i truly fell in love with a woman and knew that being her was 100 percent the path on which i was supposed to be, but i still believed in the church.i thought, therefore, that i could change how the church viewed lgbt people; i believed that i was gonna be the rainbow-flag-waving scientologist. i was a big donor and i was the head of one of their front groups. i thought, i cant get in trouble for anything. im gonna walk in to the church of scientology and im gonna be a scientologist, but im gonna have the woman i love right next to me. i honestly did not think that they would stop me.i was wrong.everyone that i know who has left the church of scientology has had extreme difficulty doing so. it is a very hard thing to do when your entire life, your belief system and every answer that you about life comes from l. ron hubbard. there is a different way of speaking, there is a way you are taught to view medicine, marriage, personal interactions, business practices. you have to find a way to unwind yourself.its a slow process  a very slow process. at times, even, you feel like youre being pushed out, but youre trying to hang on because youre trying to prove that youre worthy of the group of which you wanted to be a part for so long. it can be similar to an abusive marriage: you get hurt and yet you still go back. my relationship with the church of scientology felt much like that.i want people to know that, if you are searching for something in your life, if you believe that there are past things that are hindering you from moving forward, the church of scientology will not have the answer for you. maybe you need to see a psychiatrist. maybe you need to study buddhism. maybe it is catholicism. i dont know what the answer is for everybody, but i know that it is not the church of scientology for anybody.as told to think editor megan carpentier, edited and condensed for clarity.