six months ago, drake was left for dead.pusha ts dis track the story of adidon, released may 29, took a scalpel to drakes public persona and cleaved fully through, portraying a hypocritical man haunted by racial insecurities, a secret love child and a chilling familial history. the song transformed the debate over drake from a musical into a moral one, threatening to obliterate a self-actualization narrative that drake had been building for more than a decade.but while the story of adidon could have been the asteroid that pushed drakes career into a nosedive, he turned it into a footnote. this year, drake has racked up three billboard no. 1 hits and a platinum album, scorpion, starred in unforgettable music videos, dropped pristine guest verses and ignited viral dance crazes.the artists banner year has been cemented this fall by mia, drakes spanish-language collaboration with bad bunny that cruised into the billboard hot 100s top five this week. the song shows him to be a chameleon with godzilla proportions  a man who mimics, absorbs and then shifts the pop paradigm in one fell swoop. and if you still cling to the perception that drake is nothing more than a toothless cornball, you need to pay more attention. mia is the cherry on top of one of the greatest individual years in pop music of all time.its easy to prove drakes 2018 dominance by the numbers. when drakes fifth album scorpion was released in june, he broke single-day streaming records on apple music and spotify and was the first artist to have their album pass 1 billion streams in its first week. he broke the record for most songs simultaneously in the top 10 of billboards hot 100 (seven) and the top 100 (27). and mia is his 12th song to crack the top 10 this year, pushing him past the beatles for the most in a single year.scorpion received far less love from critics, who felt that the album fell short in the context of several expectations: that drake would use it to respond to pusha, evolve sonically, and create a conceptually cohesive project following the wandering bloat of 2016s views and 2017s more life. that he failed to achieve any of the three made the album easy to dismiss for some reviewers.the whole may have been a bit scattershot, but many of the individual songs were clinically brilliant. its likely that someone told you that they only loved their bed and their mama this summer. its even more likely you heard the springy bounce of in my feelings relentlessly blasting from moving cars, boomboxes and stadium sound systems. b-side tracks like nonstop and mob ties stormed charts across the world before even getting released as singles, with lebron james gushing over the latter in a recent episode of hbos the shop. and nice for what, the albums crown jewel, may be one of the best drake songs of all time, with even lauryn hill signaling her approval by flipping back her own sample in concert.drake knew that many critics wanted a certain structure and narrative, but he ignored them: n----- want a classic, thats just ten of these, he rapped on sandras rose. he was right. scorpion thrives precisely because it doesnt conform to the platonic ideal of the album, which was originally conceptualized because of physical constraints. dark side of the moon captivated audiences in 1973 in part because of the listeners forced captivity  theres no skip button on a vinyl record.scorpion, on the other hand, isnt really meant to be listened all at once. drake understands that the modern structure is more fungible, and that people will listen in bunches or on shuffle; as part of playlists, videos, memes, workouts or barbecues. in its flexibility and ambivalent attitude toward itself, scorpion feels like the first masterwork of the streaming era.other artists on drakes level, like adele, taylor swift and beyonce, operate on strict album cycles, in which they descend from the heavens once every few years to bestow a neatly packaged product before vanishing again. but drake has done the exact opposite, making cameos in a dizzying array of musical contexts.he took victory lap verses with fellow rap royalty on 2 chainz and quavos better than you and quavos flip the switch, and supercharges travis scotts sicko mode, one of the most formally inventive songs of the year. on lil baby and gunnas never recover and blocboy jbs look alive, drake reinforces his hunger to help facilitate raps future by treating three of the genres fastest rising stars as his equals. he sounds invigorated by their youth while asserting his own supremacy through unrelenting volleys of syllables.drake understands that in 2018, raps outer blade is just pops next doughy center; he wields the power to both predict a young superstars rise while simultaneously helping to propel it. this ability is especially meaningful when it comes to mia, his collaboration with bad bunny. drake is far from the first western star to turn his eyes to latin america; justin bieber, demi lovato and others have already walked that path.but while some of those have felt like interlopers, drakes presence on mia feels natural  his gliding syllables fit the beat snugly, and the lilting melody is so, well, drake-ian. and while bad bunny doesnt need much of a lift  he already went no. 1 this year on cardi b and j balvins i like it  mia is irrevocable proof of latin traps ascendance into the american mainstream.while some might be cynical about these forays into foreign territory, drake has time and time again proved his commitment to the idea that modern pop music is inherently global. he sang in spanish with romeo santos in 2014 and has constantly drawn from caribbean rhythms in songs like passionfruit and one dance;\" hes a toronto emcee that has diligently worked to become fluent in london grime, jamaican dancehall and houston chopped and screwed tempos. this year, drake broke records, rewrote structural norms and united the edges of music across the globe. in the process, hes become the north star in the pop constellation.