chilling adventures of sabrina (also referred to by its cutesy hashtag #caos) arrives on netflix this weekend with a lot of buzz  and a built-in fan base. the series is a spinoff, stemming from the cws hit show riverdale. (netflix has full distribution rights outside the u.s. for riverdale, where it is promoted as a \"netflix original.\") but no one will mistake this for a show that would ever exist on broadcast, nor is it anything like sabrina: the teenage witch, the popular comedy many millennials associate with melissa joan hart and the 1990s.alternately hair-raising, disquieting and downright macabre, this newest \"sabrina\" has undergone a serious update. netflix pulls from a 2014 version of the comic, which was originally set in the 1960s, and turns it into a parable about everything from #metoo issues at sabrinas mortal school to the regressive social conventions of the unholy realm.both riverdale and caos borrow from the same source material: the long-running, mass-market archie comic series. archie, betty, veronica and jughead were reimagined for present day in riverdale, but with a dark twist. (veronicas family are gangsters, incest and murder abound, betty and jughead are dating, etc.) \"riverdale\" was a cult hit at first, but the cws deal with netflix gave it international exposure  and all ten episodes landed on the streaming service right after the broadcast run ended in may, perfect for bingeing over summer break.the series returned to the cw with a huge new following for season two and talk of a second show based on the best-known archie comic spinoff, sabrina: the teenage witch.this latest sabrina is played by kiernan shipka, who grew up playing sally draper on amcs critically acclaimed mad men. her character is a self-aware half-witch, living as a mortal with a human boyfriend and two bffs. the story begins the week before her 16th birthday, when sabrina will sign her name in the book of the beast and transfer to the academy of unseen arts (an unholy hogwarts, if there ever was one) to begin her witchs training. but the more sabrina learns about her fathers (magical) people, the more she begins to have doubts about which path she should take.the cws archie block of programming has clearly benefited from netflixs involvement. the streaming service stepped in and offered to produce the whole thing, promising caos two seasons to start, a larger budget and the freedom that comes from not having to adhere to broadcast standards. it was an offer producer, writer and showrunner roberto aguirre-sacasa  couldnt refuse.its a good thing he didnt. for one thing, theres the length. since moving to 18 episodes in season two, riverdale has struggled to keep the magic of its initial ten installments. though there are many shows that suffer from netflix bloat, sabrina isnt one of them. caos runs only 10 episodes a season, and that feels like exactly the right length for the show. sabrinas story has room to breathe without ever feeling overextended, but theres also space for the rest of her friends and family to develop their own stories. this should keep audiences invested in both the moral and immortal worlds simultaneously.then theres the tone. riverdale is already brooding and bloody; caos is even darker. aguirre-sacasa, from the outset, said he wanted an exorcist flavor to the series. with the freedom of netflix, hes got it. caos is no the haunting of hill house, netflixs scariest series to date, but its far stronger than anything netflixs stranger things ever dared to dream.the original sabrina: the teenage witch made magic fun, comical and sometimes a little mischievous. theres none of that here. by the midway point of the show, theres no doubt exactly who satan is, or exactly how horrific a master he is. there are demons, exorcism-level face-offs, terrifying resurrections and scenes where the witches and warlocks gorge themselves on human flesh. one has a real hard time imagining the cw would have allowed the show to get away with half of this.but its the shows politics that really make this series stand out. contemporary sabrina and her pals find themselves facing down sexist principals who dismiss the idea of girl-lead after-school clubs. one of sabrinas best friends, susie, is non-binary (as is the actor in the role) and the show makes a point to be realistic about the discrimination kids like susie still face.but leaving the mortal world doesnt solve these problems. in fact, the deeper sabrina explores the rituals of the church of the night, the more she realizes how retrograde its ideas about gender roles are, leaving her to fight for equality on two fronts.the shows broadcast roots do occasionally bleed through. most netflix shows, aware of their bingeable nature, write each hour as if it is a chapter in a larger whole, not an hour-long story someone will watch and then forget about until the next week. (netflix is not the only one who does this as its been a hallmark of prestige tv on hbo since the sopranos.) but sabrinas adventures are relatively self-contained, with a beginning, middle and end  plus a few minutes of bumpers at the beginning and end of each story that act as connective tissue for the netflix crowd.the resulting pace at times can feel a little slow, but aguirre-sacasa seems to be trying to avoid the excessive twists that plagued the second season of riverdale. and there are already enough bigger mysteries seeded throughout to keep fans engaged for season two. once it gets going, caos is a show that demands to be binged, preferably on halloween.