halloween is frightful  but not as terrifying, creepy, chilling and (occasionally) thrilling as dating. at this most spook-tacular time of the year, beware of some of the ghouls and demons you may encounter during your own romantic adventures. it can be scary out there.there is, of course, the ghost, a familiar spirit who may haunt you for weeks merely by his unexplained absence. hes cute, smart, funny, kind and sexy. he likes you; he really likes you. you have a great first date, a fantastic second date and an extraordinary third date. maybe at some point you have really fun adult intimate relations. hooray! and then  poof! nothing. nada. the man is gone, vanished into the ether. was he merely a very human-like visitation from the great beyond? no, he was a jerk who cant commit to something so simple as a phone call saying, hey, this isnt working out for me.the solution is an exorcism: block his number, lest you be tempted to reach out between one and six times to say, um, hi? hello? that trip you said you wanted to take to the worlds biggest ball of twine are we not doing that anymore? unmatch, unfollow, unfriend, mute, soft-block and so forth.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]or then theres the vampire: she wants to be around you all the time. slowly, you realize she wants to suck the emotional life force out of you. she needs all your time, all your energy, all your everything.the only cure for the common emotional vampire is to rescind the invitation. youre the one who invited her in, so youve got to be the one to politely (but firmly) tell her to go. chances are, you let her stay around for a while because your ego needed the flattery. or perhaps you mistook her focus on you for fascination with you. but, really, what she has is a fascination with her own wants and needs, and how you can satisfy them. garlic and holy water wont help you here, but a direct, well-worded message will.everyone fears encountering a werewolf: hes really kind, until he isnt. hes really hardworking, until he isnt. hes really thoughtful, until he isnt. this fellow is a true delight  most of the time. but then something happens and he flips.that kind of guy is potentially far more dangerous to your health (mental and otherwise) than the ghost or the vampire. the ghost doesnt like to face feelings, so he avoids them. the vampire doesnt have a strong center and so she must feed off others for validation. the werewolf cant handle his emotions  particularly anger and sadness  so he bottles them up until something (the full moon, alcohol, you saying something completely innocuous) triggers a full-on explosion.the solution is to banish him. you dont want to have to walk on eggshells all the time. with a werewolf, there may be one continual trigger for his freak-outs, but more likely there will be a few. and they will always change, and youll never feel completely safe or settled. i dont care how handsome he is with that beard: get out.frankensteins monster, on the other hand, initially seems so full of fabulous qualities and a diversity of interests. then, slowly, you hear that shes only into skiing because her ex-boyfriend was. she only likes this band because her sister told her they were cool. she only went to college because her friends were doing it. and do you like that one author, that one filmmaker, that one athlete, that one cuisine? cool, now she does too, completely and totally.where would you like to go to eat? shell go anywhere you want to go. what would you like to drink? shell have that too. shes not malevolent, mean, cruel or unlovable. in fact, shes probably a truly wonderful person at heart. but she doesnt know who she is, so shes an amalgamation of what other people tell her she should be.your only out is to detach with kindness. you didnt break her, and you cant fix her. youve got problems of your own, and youre a flawed human being like any other. if youre looking for an independent-minded individual, she isnt it. and she may make a lovely friend, but the chance for a codependent relationship here is sky-high. dont say something hurtful. its okay to simply say, i think youre wonderful and ive had a really nice time with you, but this isnt for me, romantically speaking.finally, pirates may seem sexy in theory  theyre tough, theyve got swagger and they have a penchant for adventure  but in actuality, theyre people who steal things. stealing stuff, even in a romantic nautical setting, doesnt make you suddenly sexy and cool.regardless of whether this dude lives within a stones throw of sexytime cove, hes a thief. he may quite clearly steal from you  money, food, your starbucks gift card from your aunt  or he may do things like forget his credit card when the restaurant bill comes and borrow money for the heating bill. you dont want no scrub and you dont want no pirate.like the seafarers of yore, youve got to exile this barnacle. i dont care how hot he looks on the yacht he probably stole from his rich friend, he must go. let him mooch off somebody who is so enchanted with his pet parrot and eyepatch they forget to check their bank account balance. or let him find somebody who just doesnt care.whether you encounter one of these creatures, or simply somebody with garden-variety mummy issues  fine, i deserve to be kicked out of the halloween party for that pun  its always healthy to set boundaries. stay alert, stay aware, stay kind and good luck finding the treat you truly deserve. happy halloween, lovers!