on november 6th, for the first time since donald trump took control of the federal governments executive branch and the republican party, americans across the country have an opportunity to make their voices heard at the ballot box. over the last two years, we have been inundated with trumps antics and republican policies. twenty-four hour news cycles and social media keep him in front of our faces daily. the chaos is taking its toll. we feel the weight of the deep divisions in the country. america seems to be fraying at the seams. make no mistake about it, voting on november 6th goes beyond the particular political candidates on the ballot. this historic mid-term is about the future of our democracy.in several states, early voting has already begun. re-enacting his 2016 maga rallies on a smaller scale, trump hopes his america first message can help republicans keep control of congress. in this political theater, trump appeals to crass selfishness and greed as he touts the state of the economy and the gains in the stock market. he aims to stoke fears and anxieties among his base. he plays the race card with his talk of crime and the so-called ominous caravan of criminals and terrorists threatening our border. it is an old conservative trope: the barbarians are at the gates. but voters across the country must hold a firm grip on reality: it wasnt trumps message that worked in 2016. it was the electoral college.the president who lost the popular vote by more than 3 million and has remained well below a 50% approval rate for his entire presidency does not have the same structural advantage in the midterms. district-by-district, he has to try to convince everyday americans that a political agenda which serves the wealthiest americans while hurting poor and working people as well as the environment is somehow good for them. its a hard case to make, but the gop has been preparing a playbook for 50 years that makes trumps con game possible.key to their midterm strategy is engaging the basea coalition that depends on racial fears and religious sentiment. jobs not mobs is the slogan they have chosen this year, casting the unprecedented numbers of nonviolent protests since trumps inauguration as a threat to our common life. the southern strategy of the gop adopted this tactic directly from the segregationists of the 1960s who regularly derided the protests of dr. martin luther king, jr. and others as the threat of mob rule.   the proposed alternative to this imagined threat is the leadership of politicians who use the religious language of values. like the southern preachers who defended slavery and preached against the immorality of reconstruction or those dr. king addressed in the letter from a birmingham jail, the court evangelicals will join trump on the trail, praying their gods blessing over candidates who promise to prop up the presidents agenda. while the approach to rally the base is time-tested, republican strategists know that their older and whiter crowd is shrinking in numbers. in response to that clear fact, they have taken another page from the segregationists playbook: voter suppression. much more sophisticated than the poll taxes and literacy tests of the jim crow era, todays voter suppression tactics are built on complex data sets that tell republicans in power exactly whose votes they need to suppress to hold onto power. since the 2010 census, dozens of congressional districts have been gerrymandered to stack and pack voters who oppose republicans in a small number of districts so that the majority of districts arent competitive.in addition to this effort to create a structural advantage within the system, republicans have also touted the myth of voter fraud to implement voter id laws, cross-check systems, and voter roll purges designed to suppress the votes of young people, poor people, and african americans. journalist ari berman has documented how, before trump won wisconsin by 30,000 votes in 2016, republicans had suppressed as many as 250,000 votes through these tactics. the same tactics are being deployed to sway tight races in georgia, north carolina, kansas and elsewhere this year.given these attacks on our democracy, the blue wave that many pundits and pollsters have forecast is far from certain. it is entirely possible that a majority of americans could vote for democrats in this election and both houses of congress remain in control of the party trump now owns. if this happens, it will make it even more difficult to reconstruct the basic infrastructure of american democracy. which is why the time to fight for the heart of our democracy is now, and the first serious hurdle is november 6th.   we must vote like never before this fall, turning out even in the places where weve not expected to win for generations. we know our power. we saw it in alabama when african americans, particularly african american women, turned out in record numbers. we saw young voters in the florida primary turn the tide and propel andrew gillum to an unexpected win. we know what grassroots organizing can do. we see it in the poor peoples campaign, in the womens march, and in those local efforts across the country to shift the assumptions about who actually matters in this democracy.  we must build coalitions between young people, african americans, latinos and poor and working white neighbors who have not benefited from the 39% stock market growth. and we must commit to work together for years to come. because donald trump didnt create this crisis; he capitalized on it.   the change must be from the bottom up. not from the democratic national committee or the washington beltway or spurred on by political pundits. it will come from everyday people who finally decide they have had enoughordinary folk who will muster the spiritual wherewithal to fight for our democracy before it gives way.now is the time to come together and commit to become the multi-ethnic democracy weve never yet been.