the chinese may finally be getting inside donald trumps head. perhaps its the listening theyve allegedly been doing on his most private thoughts as he reportedly unburdens himself on his unsecured cell phones to his besties, like foxs sean hannity. leaders in china denied the new york times scoop, but noted that if the u.s. president is worried about eavesdropping, he should use a chinese-made huawei. well played, beijing.if chinese agents really are listening in, theres no end of places where they could make use of that insight in what is fast becoming a serious battle between the worlds two largest economies.to begin with, there are the next face-to-face meeting between trump and chinas president xi jinping on the sidelines of the g20 conference at the end of november in argentina. and the chinese, no novices when it comes to reading american electoral politics, will no doubt be watching next tuesdays midterms carefully for any hint of vulnerability.on thursday, trump tweeted that he and xi  had spoken over the phone, and that \"discussions are moving along nicely.\" with tariffs already beginning to bite on both sides of the pacific, particularly in stock exchanges in the u.s. and china, thursdays conversation suggests that there may be some dawning sense of just how profound the stakes are in a whole host of areas concerning the two countries.so far, though, beyond a brief and encouraging trump tweet, theres been little indication that china is prepared to offer any substantial relief for the laundry-list of concessions the trump administration has presented to them. according to bloomberg, trump has asked officials to start drafting  a potential agreement, but not everyone is buying it. rob carnell, ings chief economist and head of research for asia pacific, told cnbc  that the timing of the whole thing \"feels a little bit too coincidental\" given the election mere days away.notably, the list of chinese goods under tariffs jumped from $50 billion to $200 billion in september and it could surge from 10 percent to 25 percent next year. larry kudlow, the presidents top economic advisor, observed that beijing still isnt returning any phone calls from the american side  nothing. nada.and why should they? chinas trade agenda is deeply linked to any number of other pressure points, many of which trump himself has established, often with little apparent understanding of the consequences.early on, long before the threats of a full-blown tariff war turned into a reality, trump sought chinese aid in pressing north korea into concessions on its race toward a nuclear arsenal.on the surface, a chinese-u.s. agreement dealing with north korea would appear to be mutually beneficial. china has little interest in having a nuclear power led by a potentially unstable young autocrat close to some of its major population centers. and china is hardly interested in having an economically crippled nation of more than 25 million people  all potential refugees from famine and repression  on the other side of an 880-mile frontier.initially, china did pitch in, albeit half-heartedly, by enforcing sanctions imposed by the u.n. and supported by the united states. but lately china has begun easing off on these sanctions. even taking north korea out of the equation, china is well aware of the global leverage it holds.the south china sea is the transit corridor for at least a quarter of all the worlds trade  some several trillions of dollars worth  and the lifeblood of a host of countries. the corridor accounts for 14 percent of all american trade, some 30 percent of indias trade passes through these routes, 43 percent of japans, 23 percent of brazils and even 12 percent of britains commerce. nearly two-thirds of chinas commerce passes through routes that encompass the south china sea.not surprisingly, chinas considers this body of water strategically important and as integral a part of its security as the chinese mainland. so, it has begun to fortify it as if it owns it. building artificial, highly fortified islands, its military jealously defends all land and air approaches. u.s. military aircraft, even accompanied by japanese air defense forces that approach are warned off, in no uncertain terms.and in what feels like an effort to further isolate the united states from its traditional friends and allies in the region, china embarked in october on some major naval exercises with 10 nations that border the south china sea, keeping the u.s. at bay.equally intractable is the perpetual issue of taiwan. china continues to play hardball with any nation that seems prepared to recognize or do business with taiwan independently of the mainland, which it considers a province of the mainland. in october, australia abandoned plans for a free-trade agreement with taiwan after beijing warned of serious consequences.since the election of taiwans new president tsai ing-wen, five countries have withdrawn diplomatic recognition of the island, though trump and vice president mike pence have both continued to insist on americas embrace of taiwan as a democratic counterweight to chinese communism.with further trade sanctions hanging over chinas head, its hard to see what leverage on any of these often deeply interrelated issues remains for trump.all of which brings us back to the upcoming g20 session. despite what trump claims, its hard to believe that xi actually sees trump as a close friend anymore. will the chinese manage to glean any real insight from the presidents phone calls  if indeed they are tapped into his private communications?perhaps xi himself may be perceptive enough to recognize how he can use this most recent scandal to embarrass trump, and impress upon him that there is no easy road through beijing. what is more clear is that whether working to resolve an increasingly nasty trade dispute or an intractable nuclear standoff with pyongyang, america  and trump  is quickly losing the upper hand.