the white house is suddenly interested in medicare for all.in the weeks leading up to the midterms, trumps administration has launched a series of attacks against the policy, including a rare presidential op-ed in usa today filled with easily debunked lies. on oct. 23, in perhaps the surest sign yet that right-wing leaders are concerned with medicare for alls growing popularity, the white house released a 70-page report denouncing socialist policies  with particular focus given to single-payer healthcare.whats provoking the flurry of attacks on medicare for all? perhaps its multiple recent polls showing 52 percent of republicans support the policy  as do 70 percent of people overall. the crisis of market-driven healthcare is felt by the vast working majority, whether a district is red or blue. everyone but the rich is getting squeezed by claim denials and rising premiums, copays and deductibles  all while wages remain mostly stagnant.its clear that the demand to improve and expand medicare is going to be a major battle leading into 2020. but while right-wing leaders are united against the policy, we shouldnt expect corporate democrats to fight for it either.right now, private insurers  who donate to both parties  profit off our sickness by cutting corners and passing the costs along to us at every opportunity. the top four health insurance companies made $60 billion in profits between 2009-15, while their executives took home between $20-$66 million each year. medicare for all would redirect that money toward its intended purpose: the provision of healthcare.but despite saving trillions, funding medicare for all will still require taxing the rich to guarantee care for workers, who typically spend 10 to 15 percent of theirs. it will also put an end to the $260 billion in tax giveaways we currently hand to corporations so they can afford to insure their workers.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]this is why the ruling class in america, including businesses and the medical establishment, has long held a special distaste for the idea of universal healthcare. and its why theyre now setting their sights on medicare for all.but while theyd never admit it, trump has an ally in centrist politicians of both parties who depend on the private insurance industrys support. to these politicians, liberal and conservative, the demand for medicare for all represents an existential threat. trumps attack has forced democrats like sen. chuck schumer into the uncomfortable position of cagily defending a policy that they and their donors refuse to endorse or outright oppose, but their voters demand.this is significant. after all, its these same democrats who kept single-payer off the table when passing the affordable care act. and with the healthcare crisis worsening, the party establishment has focused its efforts on reforming the aca or pushing watered-down legislation. but band-aid solutions do nothing to erase the profit motive that drives our healthcare woes, and its evident that republicans arent looking to compromise anyway.for centrist democrats, expanding a popular social program that is cheaper than the private sector has always been something that will never, ever  in the words of hillary clinton  happen. the reason for this is simple: they dont want to upset the donor class that keeps them in office.the truth is that the fight for medicare for all isnt between democrats and republicans. by framing it as such, trump and his administration are distracting us from the real fight between the corporate class  whose interests are tied to those of insurance companies and the pharmaceutical lobby  and the rest of us, who are desperate for healthcare security.medicare for all represents a new kind of politics  and the best alternative to the trump administrations self-serving austerity. as the first truly universal program in u.s. history, it would set a new precedent for what working people ought to expect from the government. winning medicare for all would be a major step in transforming how we organize society  on the principle of solidarity, not profit.this november, trump wants to use fear  fear of immigrants, taxes, losing your plans  to drive turnout against democratic socialist candidates across the country who are running on single-payer. in place of fear, its time to reject the corporate class and stand up for our common interest. its time for medicare for all.