humanity needs to return to corporate america. employers must understand the fundamental role they play in all aspects of their employees lives, and the value that individual employees have to a company besides as a replacement unit. it is not enough to simply discuss workforce flexibility and family-friendly practices in the workplace; these ideals need to be lived on a daily basis, and even the best of companies can strive to do better.on the one hand, employees are searching for environments where they are valued as humans with unique qualities and skills to offer. employment is perceived as a relationship, involving give and take on both sides of the equation. this approach, however, is not often shared by employers, and too many companies continue to treat employees as numbers rather than individuals. workers are regarded as faceless entities, rather than human beings with personal attributes, lives and needs  even those those personal attributes, lives and needs often make them better employees.my experience is a case in point.i started my career in human resources because i was intellectually interested in how to improve the lives of a companys employees on a day-to-day basis. but after i chose to start a family, what had been an intellectual interest became a more practical one: i longed for a job that would enable me to seamlessly weave work and family together, yet i quickly learned how elusive that was in corporate america.after accepting a job at unilever, i thought i might have found the job that would help me achieve that elusive work-life balance given that they are renowned for family-friendly work policies. then, two and a half years after joining the company, i heard the four words threw my life into a complete tailspin: your child has cancer.per the companys family leave policy, i was initially approved for a short leave of absence and, from that point forward, i lived and breathed cancer. gone were the days of spontaneous fun activities and, in their place, entered an endless cycle of blood draws, chemo treatments, doctor visits, scans, and frightening medical terminology that i was expected to understand. as weeks turned into months, i slowly eased into a routine which made it possible to live. when it became clear that returning full-time would be impossible for the foreseeable future, i contacted my manager. i was hopeful we could create a flexible or part-time work arrangement through the duration of my daughters treatment. instead, i was met with an ultimatum: return to work full time, or resign my position when my leave of absence ended.i was blindsided by the decision. if a successful, global organization like unilever could not devise a temporary work solution for fear of disrupting employee production in the human resources department, how could any other company in the u.s. hope to respond to a similar situation?the ultimatum was devastating; hen all else had fallen apart, i had hoped that my career could remain the one stable element in an otherwise chaotic life, especially given how hard id worked to help the company be more \"family-friendly.\"  but my decision to accept their ultimatum was easy; the health of my children has always been my top priority.since then, i have learned that my experience as an employee facing a devastating medical situation that did not necessitate me leaving the work force is by no means an isolated one. being forced out of the workforce rather than being easily accommodated within it is rather a pervasive trend throughout america today. i have met countless families over the course of my daughters treatment whove shared similar devastating stories: they, too, have lost wages, jobs and medical benefits as a result of taking care of a loved one, and many are unable to recover professionally or financially.a companys culture, though, is the heart and soul of an organization, and is heavily influenced by leadership. when founded on ideals such as compassion and empathy, employees learn to treat others with kindness and respect, and in turn reciprocate with a sense of loyalty and community within the organization. this type of culture should signify an employers commitment to the well-being and success of its employees, and it should create a culture that embraces flexibility and support during both during normal times and during challenges or unexpected crises, when its often needed the most.few organizations today have been successful in creating truly flexible and compassionate work cultures. even a company like google  world-renowned for this ideal  can learn to do better. when our daughter was initially diagnosed, googles support for my husband as an employee was exceptional. coworkers were allowed to donate personal vacation time, allowing my husband to work remotely when necessary, and managers found ways to support non-standard working hours, all of which eased our burden during this difficult journey.but its easy for companies to forget that childhood illness can be a marathon, rather than a sprint. as the months of our daughters illness have turned into years, even google has fallen into the trap of prioritizing policy over empathy. it has become increasingly difficult for my husband to balance his career with our daughters ongoing health concerns, and this has only highlighted for me the need for true change to be implemented more broadly.i have never once doubted my decision to choose being able to be with my daughter while she fights cancer over my job at unilever, even if it ultimately will mean the end of my broader career, too. but i should never have been forced to choose in the first place when there could have been many other options. 