when in doubt, choose violence. thats the moral of the latest addition to hollywoods action-violence genre, the girl in the spiders web, which slips into the box office this weekend under the guise of a sequel. but with a completely new cast, all new production team and even a different writer for the source material, the film has an only surface-level resemblance to the films that came before it, let alone the novel. the characters may bear the same names as before, but who they are, and the storys underlying theme, has been radically altered.the original novels  were about the ways men hurt and abuse women. in a way it was a story ahead of its time. lisbeths revenge against the men who do ghastly things to women would fit in nicely  in a hyperbolic way  with the #metoo era. but in its subsequent retellings, this central thesis has been watered down and stylized. this latest version is a movie that attempts to turn lisbeth into a sort of female vigilante james bond  franchise potential and all  by removing her feminist rage against the male patriarchy and instead turning the female characters against each other.the original swedish title of the girl with the dragon tattoo was mn som hatar kvinnor, which translates to men who hate women. the author, swedish journalist stieg larsson, claimed it was inspired by a gang rape he witnessed as a teen. larsson hoped it would be the first installment in a ten-volume cycle, known as the millennium series, all of which would focus on feminist social commentary and swedens political climate  where equality is heavily preached, though not always heavily practiced.unfortunately, larsson only completed three of the installments, all of which were published posthumously: the girl with the dragon tattoo, the girl who played with fire and the girl who kicked the hornets nest. note that none of these titles match the current film being released. but \"dragon tattoo was made into a swedish language movie in 2009. it did so well in north america, hollywood remade it in english in 2011, where it was a hit all over again. larssons publisher then commissioned new stories to be written by crime journalist david lagercrantz to add to the originals. the girl in the spiders web was the first one to arrive in 2015, followed by the girl who takes an eye for an eye last year.to compare the newest film to james bond therefore works on more than one level. spiders web is a sequel to dragon tattoo in the same way license to kill is a sequel to dr. no; different author, different attitude, different theme, different cast. obviously, sometimes this concept does turn into a successful franchise. but what made the girl with the dragon tattoo so startling as a story and arresting as a movie has been lost  perhaps permanently.both versions of the dragon tattoo film were crime thrillers, punctuated with moments of extreme vengeance. the swedish version was a bit sexier, the america a bit more violent, but their themes stayed on point. though lisbeth salander (played by noomi rapace in 2009 and rooney mara in 2011) is the heroine, her story is seen through the eyes of larssons avatar, journalist mikael blomkvist (played first by michael nyqvist and then daniel craig), who recognizes her rage and genius. hes the watson to her avenging angel holmes. the mysteries are plotted like sherlock-style stories too, with careful twists and turns only lisbeth seems to follow while everyone else blunders behind her.the new film is all about the blundering. lisbeth (now played by claire foy) has no true foil or partner. the only two other names in the cast who are even semi-recognizable are lakeith standfield (best known for playing snoop dogg in straight outta compton) and stephen merchant (best known for being the writer behind ricky gervais version of the office). almost everyone else, including blomkvist, are played by swedish, icelandic and dutch actors, and their roles feel as secondary as their name recognition.on paper, pushing lisbeth front and center of the story sounds like it should make spiders web more feminist than a story told through or by a man. but while she may be the lead, the movie strips away most of what made lisbeth fascinating. its hard to admire a holmes figure without the framing of a watson. moreover, theres little mystery to the story when seen through her eyes. all the answers become simplified  they are obvious to her, and so they must be obvious to the audience. obviously, there is a conspiracy, obviously this is a set-up where someone is being framed and obviously shes going to pull every piece of technology out of her bag of high-tech tricks to solve it. (the movie is made by sony pictures, which you will never forget given the heavy-handed use of product placement.)without mystery, the movie must rely on pyrotechnics and martial arts, the latter of which is not really foys forte. she does her best, but the camera work on the fight scenes is hard to follow anyway so it doesnt matter.if at least lisbeth was aiming to take out misogynistic abusers and brutes, one could cheer along with the explosions. but instead, the villain lisbeth is confronted by is her own sister camilla (sylvia hoeks). lisbeth is no longer being tortured by men, but by a woman who we are supposed to believe was made this way by their sexually abusive father. on top of this, shes also tasked with saving a child in distress, because apparently hollywood cannot imagine a female character who doesnt have mothering instincts. it seems all the men so eager to make a profit off this series totally missed the memo about who the real monsters are  or buried it.claire foy is, as usual, magnetic to watch. she may not be queen elizabeth ii anymore, but she can certainly command the same level of respect. and yet, the possibilities of her role are curtailed by the productions lack of vision. i suppose thats at least a win for equal rights: women can now star in mediocre action franchises too.