whos the biggest consumer lender in the country, excluding mortgage companies? its not a bank or a credit card company. its the federal government.washington owns or guarantees $1.4 trillion in student loan debt to nearly 43 million borrowers.how did uncle sam become the nations top consumer lender? ever-more students are heading to college. thats good news. but tuition is skyrocketing. students are taking longer to graduate. the federal government has reacted by ratcheting up the amount people can borrow. in other words, americas trillion-dollar student debt load has many fathers. resolving it will require them to work together to better educate borrowers about managing debt and ensure that students graduate on time, with the skills employers demand.college enrollment has spiked 60 percent in the past 30 years. unfortunately, the cost of college has increased more than eightfold in that timeframe.the federal government, wittingly or not, has helped make those tuition hikes possible by subsidizing student debt -- capping interest rates and raising loan limits from about $17,000 in 2006 to $27,000 in 2008 and through today. those may be understandable responses to the rising cost of college. but theyve fueled tuition inflation.students have borrowed more in response. paying off higher balances takes longer. only 44 percent of borrowers have repaid at least one dollar of principal within three years of beginning their payments. the ones at greatest risk of defaulting are those who do not graduate. just 59 percent of americans finish a bachelors degree program within six years. non-graduates are three times as likely to default. many of these defaults are on relatively small debts. two-thirds of defaulters owe less than $10,000. a four-figure student loan could haunt them for decades, in the form of lower wages and higher borrowing costs.defaults happen in part because students dont receive adequate information about what it will cost to earn their degree or what their monthly payments will be. that information is available for students who seek it out. but its not automatically provided as part of the loan application process.student borrowers also tend not to know how much theyll make in their chosen field -- and consequently, how easily theyll be able to pay their loans back. yet the federal government generally funds studies in high-paying and low-paying fields on equal terms.one in five borrowers doesnt understand the terms of his loans, according to a recent study sponsored by george washington university. over half those surveyed had no idea what theyd owe every month when they took out their loan.some schools require students to go through online counseling developed by the u.s. department of education. but 40 percent of those who used the counseling tool had no memory of it.simply put, the student debt crisis is a problem of insufficient education and information. thats something colleges and the federal government should be well-equipped to address.they can start by counseling students before they sign on the dotted line. some borrowers discover too late that their choice of major or school isnt what they expected, or is beyond their means or comfort level. intervening earlier with individually tailored advice could help students avoid accumulating debt before dropping out -- or nudge them onto a different academic path.schools must also keep students informed about their debt while theyre enrolled. public colleges in indiana must send students an annual report on the amount theyve borrowed, along with links to financial literacy resources. thanks to the program, students have borrowed less and stayed on track academically. in addition, the government can streamline the repayment process. borrowers today have more than 50 options. if they wish to enroll in income-driven repayment plans, they have to complete lengthy applications on their own; loan servicers cant assist them. even simple changes can yield vast improvements. one pilot program provided borrowers pre-populated applications for income-driven repayment plans; all they had to do was sign. seventy-one percent of those who participated returned the form within 10 days. twenty-seven percent of those who had to fill the forms out manually returned them within 60 days.finally, higher ed and government must make college completion a bigger priority. schools should have some skin in the game. they receive the proceeds of taxpayer-subsidized loans. those whose graduation rates increase should be rewarded. those who fail to help their students cross the finish line should be penalized. a college degree remains the surest path to prosperity. student loans should aid that pursuit, not impede it. 