there is no more important priority for the next president than fixing our broken congress??because nothing important (save tax cuts to the rich) can pass any given compromised congress until what is broken is fixed. the frustration of americans with their government is at an all-time high: as a massive study conducted at the university of maryland found in the lead-up to the 2016 election [need link], that frustration is tied directly to an overwhelming and cross-partisan sense that our congress works for special interests, not america, and that citizens are second to lobbyists.new members of congress see this issue as critical and primary: 107 candidates in the 2018 election wrote soon-to-be-speaker nancy pelosi in october, and demanded that campaign finance and election reform be a priority of the new congress. the most forceful and compelling new progressives, including alexandria ocasio-cortez, have been disciplined to acknowledge that the changes they have demanded need broader political reforms first. both barack obama and donald trump have acknowledged that the current system of financing campaigns and the primacy of lobbyists in the creation and passage of legislation needs reform. in his first campaign for president, barack obama warned that if we dont take up that fight [against special interests], then real change  change that will make a lasting difference in the lives of ordinary americans  will keep getting blocked by the defenders of the status quo. he never did. and though trump repeated the phrase often, no one expects this president to take up his pledge to drain the swamp.america has come to expect that its politicians will promise change, yet change nothing. so rather than playing charlie brown and believing lucys promise to hold the ball, we have learned to ignore systemic reform talk, and fantasize instead about promises that could never be enacted so long as our congress remains so deeply compromised  whether a green new deal, single-payer health care, or the antitrust legislation that could get our economy growing again.speaker pelosi, thus, deserves enormous credit for so clearly acknowledging that broad political reforms are needed in order to enable the passage of any legislation the democrats want. that is why, in its first act next january, the new democratically- controlled house will reportedly take up the most important civil rights bill in half a century, signalling a profound understanding of the flaws that have evolved within our democracy. that it is scheduled for first consideration clearly telegraphs the democrats recognition that these flaws must be fixed first, if were to have a congress that is free to do the other critically important work that congress must do.introduced on thursday, the bill? ? denominated h.r. 1 ? ?is a radically comprehensive and practical fix to all but one of the critical failures of our evolved system of representative democracy.crafted primarily by representative john sarbanes, d-md., it would establish (for the first time in american history) a system to fund congressional campaigns by matching small donor funds six-to-one in exchange for limiting large donations, thereby liberating members of congress from a dependence on large private funders.the bill would further leverage congresss constitutional authority to force states to end partisan gerrymandering? by tktk [here is where how this would work needs a clause of explanation] ?an obviously better solution than anything the supreme court could ever craft. it would also trigger the automatic registration of voters nationally, restore the voting rights act by tktk [think we need to say how it gets around the scotus ruling in short] and secure critical protections to assure an equal freedom to vote by tktk [again just a couple words or else it doesnt sound concrete]. the bill would also impose strict new regulations on congress itself, to keep legislators focused on their constituents rather than distracted by their own personal interests. tktk need to say howleft untouched is solely the fundamental distortion produced by the winner-take-all system for allocating electors in the electoral college  though, until there is judicial recognition of the equal protection flaws within that system, congress could well believe it lacks the constitutional power to step in.just as important as the substance of the bill, however, is the possibility it provides for congress to serve america while it remains so bound to special interests.no doubt, given the anti-reformer who leads the senate, h.r. 1 will not become law. but, more than that, fundamental reform needs a president  one who has made a credible commitment to enact it, and an election that shows that america agrees with her or his commitment. whats striking, however, about the democrats now vying to be the next nominee is that, despite pelosis commitment, none have made reform a significant, let alone a primary, part of their agenda. last month, for instance, bernie sanders listed a ten-point plan to guide the first hundred days of the next administration. not a single item on that list even hints at political reform on the scale proposed in the house.yet we will never rally the political force this change needs without the kind of presidential leadership that would make it all but impossible for congress to ignore its duty. that leadership will come not from candidates who forget reform, or who make reform just one idea among many. it will only come from candidates who make reform fundamental and believable, by making fixing this democracy their first priority.