the comparisons between president donald trumps investigations and president richard m. nixons watergate scandal have come thick and fast.they became more urgent recently as special counsel robert mueller and the southern district of new york filed their memos with the courts about the sentencing of former trump associates michael flynn, paul manafort and michael cohen. mueller sought to reward flynn for cooperating with investigators and punish manafort for lying to those same investigators. cohen got a split decision: the southern district was less impressed than the special counsel with cohens performance, and sentenced him to three years in jail.in between the redactions and the material filed under seal, it was hard to draw bombshell conclusions. but the allegation of campaign finance violations was clear  and, perhaps more ominous than the allegation itself, it described an underlying crime that would serve as a predicate for obstruction of justice. one can see the noose tightening around the president and people close to him. trump responded by tweeting, totally clears the president. thank you! what?still, the watergate comparisons are actually an insult to nixon.for all the comparisons made between the scandals, much separates them. nixons fall was a classic tragedy. he was a man of substance, with immense political experience and a record of presidential achievement in both domestic politics and foreign policy. his own resentments and paranoia about his perceived enemies propelled him into watergate.theres no such substance with trump. his presidency has been one piece of tawdriness after another. to see the trump tragedy, look to the americans who are so estranged from the countrys institutions that they seem willing to risk blowing them up in order to be heard.true, nixons enemies would protest violently at the idea of nixon as a tragic figure, a man of virtue marred by a fatal flaw. they should reconsider.prior to its ignominious end, nixons presidency was one of consequential domestic and foreign policy. the former included initiatives  like peaceful school desegregation across the south, broadening civil rights protections to include gender discrimination, lowering the voting age from 21 to 18, creating the occupational safety and health administration, exponentially expanding the national endowment for the arts  that would later lead the new york times tom wicker, once targeted on nixons enemies list, to call him the last liberal president. the foreign policy achievements included not just the historic opening of china but nuclear arms limitations treaties with the soviet union and major action in the middle east.it is also true that the administrations substantial policy accomplishments shared the political stage with racially and culturally divisive rhetoric  like the nixon political teams southern strategy and vice president spiro agnews attacks on the media. these things werent just political cover for progressive policy positions  they were expressions of sentiments that nixon himself had developed over the course of his political career.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]seeing todays noxious political partisanship, we imagine that things were once kinder and gentler. in fact, civility in american politics ebbs and flows. when nixon began his political career, it was at ebb tide  with all kinds of unappetizing creatures crawling on the beach.in 1950, when nixon was elected to the senate from california, sen. joseph mccarthy had just begun his ugly anti-communist crusade. at the time, it seemed even more terrifying than it was.nixon defeated helen gahagan douglas  a famous liberal, mentored in politics by eleanor roosevelt and married to melvyn douglas, a big hollywood star. she emerged from the race branded the pink lady  an allusion to her alleged communist sympathies. nixon, though he attacked douglas fiercely, didnt actually invent the label. douglass democratic primary opponent did that.douglas, for her part, branded nixon for his entire political life by calling him tricky dick. no, trump didnt invent the tactic of belittling opponents by attaching schoolyard epithets to their names.that ugly senate race was the beginning. the end was the similarly ugly politics of vietnam.in the spring of 1970, mired in the vietnam war, nixon announced operations against the north vietnamese in cambodia. protests ensued. national guard troops killed students at kent state university in ohio and jackson state in mississippi. college campuses closed. hundreds of thousands of demonstrators descended on washington. john dean was hired as white house counsel.then came the 1971 leak of the pentagon papers, which exposed the flawed process by which the country had been drawn into war in vietnam and the administrations unsuccessful legal efforts to halt publication. in response, the white house plumbers were born. they were established to plug leaks of information and became integrally involved in the crimes of watergate.the political clashes over vietnam exposed the same cultural chasm that nixon had exploited, and by which he had been bruised: liberal elites against the middle class, cosmopolitanism against traditional values, racial diversity against homogeneity, blue collar workers against hippies. all ignited nixons resentments at the way he had been treated by liberals and their institutions.in other words, nixon was not one of us. the line from vietnam to watergate was straight and clear.its also not hard to see watergate echoes in the trump investigation. theres the special prosecutor, the white house scrambling to parry the investigations multiplying points of attack, a president trying to fight back.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]there are differences in the details, of course. but theres a bigger difference as well. among those who did not simply hate nixon, part of the tragedy of his presidency was the understanding that he might have accomplished much more if his resentments hadnt propelled him into lawbreaking.and among those who do not simply hate trump? if he is found to have broken the law, what accomplishments and virtues of his will weigh on the other side of the scales?this has been a bad week for considering that question. the president announced that he had struck an incredible trade deal with chinese premier xi jingping  only to see the markets tank when it turned out he had substantially oversold it. the president had refused to take strong action against saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman for killing washington post journalist jamal khashoggi  only to see senators insist on hearing directly from the head of the cia. many emerged from their briefing saying they were far more certain of mbss involvement.in other words, the deep state  or, to put it another way, u.s. civic institutions  are striking back: theyre showing that they no longer believe the president of the united states.even worse for trump was the funeral of former president george h.w. bush. something about the ceremony of a state funeral inescapably clarifies the difference between small, mean motives and generous ones. in spite of  or because of  the bush familys decision to welcome trump to the funeral and not to chide him directly, the eulogies stood as a rebuke of the president, who sat in the front row of the national cathedral with his arms crossed and a scowl on his face.soon after the service, trump tweeted that the trump-friendly rasmussen poll had his approval rating at 50 percent. the next day, rasmussen dropped the number back to 49 percent.as with watergate, the trump investigation is now approaching the immediate neighborhood of the president. but with trump, unlike nixon, there will be little to place in the balance against the investigations verdict.