the 2018 atlantic hurricane season is officially underway, and if recent storms are any indication of whats to come, we may be in for a pummeling.last year, hurricane harvey slammed southern texas and caused widespread flooding in houston. and hurricane maria became the 10th most intense hurricane on record in the atlantic basin when it devastated puerto rico and other islands in the caribbean.the national oceanic and atmospheric administration issues a hurricane season forecast each spring, and its forecast for the 2018 season specifies a 75-percent chance that this years storm activity will be at normal or above-normal levels. theres a 70-percent likelihood of 10 to 16 named storms  those with winds of 39 mph or higher. of these, five to nine could become hurricanes, with one to four turning into major hurricanes (category 3 or above).so exactly what can we expect this year? have hurricanes become more intense and more frequent  and more deadly  as result of climate change? and are we getting better at predicting where and when hurricanes will strike? for answers to these and other questions, machs denise chow spoke with kerry emanuel, a professor of atmospheric science at mit. this interview has been edited for clarity and brevity.mach: how are hurricane season forecasts made?emanuel: forecasters who are trying to make projections for the season look at long-range forecasts of climate patterns over the atlantic ocean. they especially look for the presence or absence of el nio [periodic warming in sea surface temperatures]. around may we can start to have a little bit of skill at forecasting whether an el nio or la nia [periods of below-average sea surface temperatures] might be in place by the late summer and early fall. we know that that affects hurricanes. el nio, in particular, suppresses atlantic hurricanes.forecasters also look at other sorts of seasonal predictions. for example, was the water temperature going to be warmer or colder than average, and is there expected to be more wind shear over the atlantic or not?i understand that since 1995 weve seen stronger atlantic hurricanes. why is that?thats a good question, and thats somewhat debated in my field. theres one thing theres little question about: the waters of the tropical atlantic are warmer now than they were in the 1980s. that is maybe a little bit because of the phenomenon of global warming, but a great part of it is likely due to the fact that there are fewer sulfate aerosols in the atmosphere now than there were in the 1980s.one side effect of burning fossil fuels and burning land areas to clear them is that it puts particles in the atmosphere that have the effect of reflecting sunlight and making the planets surface cooler. we had a lot of those around the 80s, and they started to decline in the late 1980s because of the clean air act and variations of that in europe and elsewhere. we cleaned up our act, which was a good thing, because those aerosols are very bad for our health  but a sad side effect of that is that without that cooling, the oceans started to warm up. that brought back the hurricanes.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]what do we know about the effect of global warming on hurricanes?im actually participating in a team put together by an organization called the world meteorological organization. its a branch of the united nations. were doing an assessment of where this whole question stands. there are several areas where theres a strong scientific consensus. one is that a given hurricane is going to produce a lot more rain as the climate warms, and were beginning to see signs of that happening. thats for a very simple reason  that a warmer atmosphere has more water vapor in it. theres really no controversy about that. we expect to see more [hurricane] harvey-type events as we go forward.another indisputable thing is that the sea level is going up, and its almost certainly going to continue to go up. the largest killer in hurricanes is something called the storm surge, which was what flooded new orleans during [hurricane] katrina and new york during [superstorm] sandy. even if the storms themselves dont change, the surges are riding on an elevated sea level, and that makes them more dangerous.theres also a reasonably strong consensus that were going to see more intense hurricanes. thats because the theory that ties the sort of maximum speed limit that you can have on hurricanes is very clear. as you warm up the system, the speed limit goes up. were going to see more intense hurricanes, and we are seeing signs of that in the data.within science, its very controversial about whether the number of storms overall is going to go up or go down. we dont see any signs one way or the other yet. and we dont expect to  the data arent good enough to tell us that.even if hurricanes arent necessarily becoming more frequent, are they doing more damage now than in the past?its really hard to tell. theres another big factor in tropical cyclone damage in the u.s. and elsewhere in the world, and its simply the fact that people are moving in droves to the coastline and building more and more stuff. thats producing a huge increase in damage from hurricanes. but if theres a climate change signal in there, itd be really hard to tease it out. its mostly because more and more people are living in dangerous places. its not much more complicated than that.what keeps you up at night?a lot of things. one is that we know from studying paleoclimate, or climates of the distant prehistoric past, that the climate system can change suddenly in ways that our models dont predict and that we dont understand. when we talk about global warming, the possibility that the system could suddenly jump to a different state does keep me and many of my colleagues awake at night. we have no way of knowing whether that will happen or predicting when or whether it will happen, but we know it happened in the past, and we know we dont understand it. that keeps me awake.what do you mean by the system jumping to a different state?we know that in the middle of these ice ages  like the last one we had  that suddenly, it would warm up for maybe 1,000 years and then go right back down to its state before. you had these sort of really sudden thaws in the ice age that didnt last long, on a geological timescale. things went back to cold in maybe just a few hundred years. we dont understand those.there are other things that happened in the past. during a period when it was extremely warm on the planet, more than 50 million years ago, when there was no ice anywhere on the planet except maybe on the peaks of very high mountains, there was a spike in temperature. it rocketed up very quickly, and then rocketed back down again. it was called the eocene-paleocene thermal maximum. we dont know why that happened, and so when we look at the record, theres certain things we do understand about it. but these other things that go on, like these big spikes, we dont understand, and it compromises our ability to predict what will happen in the future.what else worries you?the other scenario that keeps me awake at night, and a lot of hurricane forecasters, is something that happened in the 1950s. lets say you have a weak tropical depression in the western gulf of mexico. you go to bed in the evening and its intensifying but it looks like it might make landfall in two days, as maybe a weak hurricane, so you dont worry much about it. you wake up the next morning, and its a category 3 storm intensifying rapidly, about to hit a populated place later that day. that happened. it was called hurricane audrey.most people dont remember it now because it was in the 50s, but it killed 600 people. the forecasters just couldnt get the warning out in time. you dont have time to evacuate people. sudden intensification of hurricanes before a landfall is a scary scenario, and i wrote a paper last year that global warming actually makes that somewhat more likely than it has been in the past.want more stories about the environment?scientists have had some wild ideas for controlling hurricanesthe u.s. militarys plan to fight climate changewalls wont save our cities from rising seas. heres what willfollow nbc news mach on twitter, facebook, and instagram.