solar eclipses are among the most dramatic astronomical events around  just ask anyone whos seen one. for a few minutes, a black disk seems to move across the sun, and daylight slowly gives way to an eerie darkness as the temperature falls.the awesome spectacle affects wildlife as well as humans, changing the behavior of birds, cows, insects and other animals. but then, as quickly as it came, the darkness lifts and the sun shines again with its usual strength.solar eclipses, or eclipses of the sun, are rare events in part because each is visible only from a limited area of earths surface. parts of the u.s. saw a total solar eclipse on aug. 21, 2017  and the next total solar eclipse in the u.s. wont come until 2024.what causes a solar eclipse?solar eclipses occur when the moon comes between earth and the sun, blocking sunlight from our host star.its when the moons orbit brings it directly between us and the sun, so it casts a shadow on us, says astronomer caleb scharf, director of columbia universitys astrobiology center in new york city. since the moon is much smaller than earth, the shadow is only about 100 miles across, but it sweeps over the earths surface.people near the center of the moons shadow  whats called the umbra  see a total solar eclipse, in which almost all of the suns light is blocked. people near the edges of the shadow, in a region called the penumbra, see a partial solar eclipse, meaning that the sun is only partly obscured.during so-called annular eclipses, a ring of sunlight appears around the dark disk of the moon.a lucky coincidencesolar eclipses occur only because of a celestial coincidence: though the suns diameter is about 400 times that of the moon, the sun also lies about 400 times further away. the moon appears almost the same size in the sky as the sun, so earth experiences nearly perfect solar eclipses, scharf says.that wasnt the case in earths distant past, which stretches back more than 4 billion years. in our planets early days, the moon was much closer than it is now. millions of years from now, as the moons orbit gradually widens, our satellite will be farther away. that means eclipses wont be quite the same.itll look smaller, scharf says of the moon, and so eclipses will never be total again.how often do solar eclipses occur?on average, there are two total solar eclipses somewhere on earth every three years. but some years there are no total solar eclipses, and the average time between total solar eclipses in one place is more than 300 years. thats because the moons orbit around earth is slightly tilted compared to earths orbit around the sun. its either too high or too low compared to earths orbital plane, scharf says. so we have to wait for those times when it does just line up right.a related phenomenon occurs when earths shadow falls on the surface of the moon. because our planets shadow is much bigger than the moons, lunar eclipses occur more frequently than solar eclipses  usually two times a year.solar eclipses in historythe first successful prediction of a solar eclipse is attributed to the greek philosopher thales of miletus in 585 b.c. the eclipse was visible in asia minor  roughly the region occupied by turkey on todays maps  and was said to occur during a battle between the medes and lydians, who were so awed by the spectacle that they agreed to a truce after years of war.in ancient times, solar eclipses were often interpreted as bad omens for royal dynasties. in assyria, a substitute king and queen would be installed for the day of an eclipse. the unfortunate pair would be executed after the eclipse.solar eclipses have also served to advance scientific research. one of the most notable instances came in 1919, when english astronomer arthur eddington used the apparent locations of stars near the eclipsed sun to test albert einsteins theory of general relativity.eddington was just able to measure how the distant stars seemed to shift their positions because of the mass of the sun distorting space, scharf says. it was one of the things that made relativity famous.want more stories about astronomy?huge rogue planet has magnetic field scientists cant explaincould space aliens on hefty super-earths be trapped by their own gravity?the milky way galaxy may be much bigger than we thoughtfollow nbc news mach on twitter, facebook, and instagram.