black holes are the dark remnants of collapsed stars, regions of space cut off from the rest of the universe. if something falls into a black hole, it can never come back out. not even light can escape, meaning black holes are invisible even with powerful telescopes. yet physicists know black holes exist because theyre consistent with time-tested theories, and because astronomers have observed how matter behaves just outside a black hole.naturally, science fiction loves such an enigmatic entity. black holes have played starring roles in popular books, movies and television shows, from \"star trek\" and \"doctor who\" to the 2014 blockbuster \"interstellar.\"but black holes arent quite as menacing as they are commonly portrayed. they definitely do not suck, says daryl haggard, an astrophysicist at mcgill university in montreal. a black hole just sits there, passively. things can fall onto it, just as meteors can fall to earth, but it doesnt pull stuff in.how do black holes form?the force of gravity governs the motion of planets, stars and galaxies, and its responsible for creating black holes, too.stars shine because of the nuclear fusion reactions taking place in their cores. the reactions create an outward pressure that counters the inward pull of gravity. as a result, the star neither expands nor contracts. but when a stars fuel supply is exhausted and the outward pressure stops, gravity causes the star to shrink.what happens next depends on the size of the star. if its about the mass of our sun or a bit bigger, it will collapse until its a roughly earth-size body known as a white dwarf. stars that are significantly larger will collapse into an ultra-dense object known as a neutron star. if its really big, the collapse cannot be stopped  and you get a black hole.why cant anything escape from a black hole? the key is something called escape velocity: the speed needed to overcome the gravitational tug of a particular star or planet and move out into space.earths escape velocity is about seven miles per second, or about 25,000 miles an hour. throw a baseball into the air and it falls back down because its speed is lower than earths escape velocity; if your fastball exceeded 25,000 miles an hour, it would never come down.escape velocity is highest for objects that are massive but small in size. in the case of a black hole, the escape velocity is greater than the speed of light. since nothing can travel faster than light (something einstein showed with his theory of relativity), the star disappears. with light unable to escape, it appears black.a black hole is bounded by its event horizon, the imaginary sphere that represents the region where the escape velocity is exactly equal to the speed of light.black holes vary in size, with masses ranging from a handful of suns (and a diameter of a few miles) up to millions of solar masses (and a diameter of several million miles). the largest of these so-called supermassive black holes are believed to lie at the center of most galaxies, including our own milky way.astronomers are still debating how these colossal black holes form. one possibility is that theyre the result of mergers between star-size black holes.whats inside a black hole?no one knows exactly what lies within a black holes event horizon. some physicists hypothesize that matter inside is so compressed that it forms a point of infinite density known as a singularity. in this view, a black hole can be thought of as empty space, with its mass concentrated at an infinitesimal point in the center.anyone unlucky enough to fall into a black hole would be torn apart by the intense gravity  stretched like spaghetti, as stephen hawking famously put it  with his or her mass added to the black holes.other physicists question this view of the interior of a black hole, arguing that a more comprehensive physical theory  one that combines einsteins theory of gravity with quantum theory  might do away with singularities.black holes may be dark, but that doesnt mean we cant study themastronomers have learned a great deal about black holes by watching what happens to gas and dust that fall into them. such material can reach very high temperatures, causing it to emit light at various wavelengths.the event horizon telescope, a globe-spanning array of radio telescopes, is giving astronomers their closest look yet at the region immediately outside a black hole. astronomers have also used the very large telescope in chile to study the motion of stars near the milky ways supermassive black hole, known as sagittarius a* (pronounced sagittarius a-star). from these motions its possible to infer some of the properties of the black hole.the 2015 discovery of gravitational waves means that scientists can use these waves to study collisions between black holes in deep space.want more stories about space?astronauts could stay at this space motel on the way to marstiny satellites are reshaping spaceflight in a big way  and bringing new risksastronaut inspired by the right stuff gets set for the second act he never expectedfollow nbc news mach on twitter, facebook, and instagram.