oh come on. i never said that.youre just being overly sensitive.i dont know why youre making such a big deal out of thispsychologists use the term gaslighting to refer to a specific type of manipulation where the manipulator is trying to get someone else (or a group of people) to question their own reality, memory or perceptions. and its always a serious problem, according to psychologists.it is always dangerous, robin stern, phd, associate director of the yale center for emotional intelligence and author of \"the gaslight effect,\" tells nbc news better. the danger of letting go of your reality is pretty extreme.it may start out with seemingly small offenses. but the problem is that even more-or-less insignificant instances of you questioning your own judgment or reality  thanks to the deliberate intent of someone else  can snowball. you can end up in a cycle of not being able to negotiate your daily life in a way where you are clear minded, can focus, can make sound decisions, and have a sense of well-being, stern says.gaslighting happens in personal relationships (think an abusive spouse or, in rarer cases, parent), in professional relationships (a manipulative boss or coworker preying on a subordinate), and even by public figures. there are several examples of gaslighting being done by president donald trump and his administration, stern notes.no matter whether its happening in a marriage, between a leader and his or her constituency or elsewhere, its important to be aware of the red flags that you (or someone you know) might be a victim  which is the first step to getting out of the abusive situation.gaslighting usually happens in a power dynamic, but its not always intentional or maliciousthere usually tends to be a power dynamic when gaslighting happens, stern explains. the manipulator holds enough power that the target of the gaslighting is terrified to change up [the relationship] or step out of the gaslighting dynamic because the threat of losing that relationship  or the threat of being seen as less than who you want to be seen as to them  is quite a threat, she saysif its happening by someone you love and care about (like a spouse or parent), youre going to want to believe the other person  and the gaslighter may use that against you, explains darlene lancer, jd, mft, a marriage and family practice therapist in private practice and author of \"codependency for dummies and conquering shame and codependency: 8 steps to freeing the true you.\"many people [in this case the targets of gaslighting] change their perceptions in order to avoid having a conflict, lancer explains.but, the gaslighter doesnt necessarily need to be acting with malicious intent  nor does the gaslighter necessarily need to realize that she or he is gaslighting another person for it to be happening, stern says.it might be a result of how you were raised. maybe your parents had very cut-and-dry beliefs and that certainty is how they (and now you) see the world and when someone sees things differently you assume something is wrong with them, stern says.maybe youre upset because you think your boyfriend is always flirting with other girls. what you dont see is that its the girls that are flirting with him and hes just being polite. but your worldview doesnt allow you to question that maybe youre getting the situation wrong. you make him think you know way more about relationships and theres something wrong with him that hes not able to see the error in his ways.maybe at first you dont believe it, but over time you may come think that maybe she is right, stern says.be wary of gaslighting if you start to question yourself a lotrecognizing that you or someone you care about might be in a gaslight tango is not always as straightforward as it might seem because it can start in very subtle ways  and often involves two people (or groups of people) who would otherwise seem to care about one another very much, stern says.the term gaslighting actually comes from a 1938 play, gas light (which was turned into a more widely known movie in 1944, gaslight), where a husband manipulates his wife to make her think shes actually losing her sense of reality so he can commit her to a mental institution and steal her inheritance. not all real-life examples are so diabolical, stern says.a subtler example might be a mother always disapproving of her daughters decisions to the extent that the daughter questions decisions she suspects her mother would not agree with. the mother may or may not consciously want to control her daughters every decision, but by being overly critical shes doing so.gaslighting can be when a popular high school student causes another student to question his or her feelings, or judgment of a situation. when that latter student asks the more popular student why the popular student didnt save a seat at the lunch table, the popular student deflects the question: why are you being so sensitive? its not that big of a deal. i didnt realize you didnt have a seat.how gaslighting happensaccording to the national domestic violence hotlines fact sheet, the techniques a gaslighter might use to manipulate someone else can include:withholding (meaning he or she refuses to listen or says they dont understand)countering (when the abuser questions the gaslightees memory of an event)blocking/diverting (when the abuser changes the subject or questions the victims thinking)trivializing (making the victims needs or feelings seem unimportant)forgetting/denial (when the manipulator pretends to have forgotten what actually happened or denies something he or she had previously agreed to)and note that a gaslighter will oftentimes start with something that is true that you might be particularly sensitive about to hook you. a coworker, for example, who tries to convince you that youre not pulling your weight in the office might bring up the fact that you complain all the time about menopause making you feel lousy. you may be feeling lousy because youre going through menopause (and that coworker may have heard you complaining about it once or twice), but that doesnt necessarily mean that your performance is changing because of it, stern explains.signs youre a victim of gaslightingaccording to stern, look for these warning signs and red flags the type of abuse might be happening to you (or someone you know):youre constantly second guessing yourself or have trouble making decisions;youre ruminating about a perceived character flaw (like being too sensitive or not a good enough person);you feel confused about your relationship (if you find yourself thinking: i thought i had this great husband, but i just feel crazy all the time or i thought i had this charming partner, but then sometimes i feel like im losing it when were together);in a confrontation with the person that might be gaslighting you, you feel like you suddenly find yourself in an argument you didnt intend to have, youre not making progress or youre saying the same thing over and over again and not being heard;you feel fuzzy or unclear about your thoughts, feelings, or beliefs;youre always apologizing;youre frequently making excuses for your partners behavior;you cant understand why youre not happy in your own life; oryou know something is wrong, but you just dont know what.what to do if someone is gaslighting youand finally, what do you do if you do recognize that someone is gaslighting you? heres what stern suggests:identify the problem. recognizing the problem is the first step, stern says. once something has a name you can being to address it specifically and granularly, she says. (sometimes writing down specifics from a conversation that you can look back to later  when youre out of the heat of the moment  can be helpful in sorting out the truth from distortion, stern suggests.)give yourself permission to feel what you feel. part of the problem with gaslighting is that it results in the victim questioning his or her own thoughts, values, perceptions or feelings. acknowledge that what you feel is what you feel so that you can take whatever action you need to take to feel better.give yourself permission to make a sacrifice. part of what makes it tough for a victim to leave a gaslight tango is that the abuser is someone they care about, they look up to, or they have a relationship with. you may have a lot of wonderful things going on in that relationship, stern says  but its not worth it if its undermining your reality. and to start to regain your sense of self that youve lost, you may need to cut that person off, give up some of those wonderful things, or live with that person not having such a high opinion of you, she says.start with making small decisions. to get out of or to stop a gaslight, take one step at a time, stern says. say no. dont engage in an argument thats clearly a power struggle.get a second opinion. ask a friend or family member you trust if they think your thinking is as off as your potential abuser says it is.have compassion for you. having compassion for yourself is super important, stern says. youre responsible to you. you need to be honest with yourself, stern notes. maybe tomorrow your partner will be great, but focus on what youre feeling in the moment, she says. recognize when you have those feelings: right now this feels like sh-t. hes driving me crazy.more mental health helphow to get mental health treatment if you cant afford it7 steps for getting through a panic attackhow to worry betterwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.