your kitchen light bulb flickers and goes black (after you just replaced its counterpart last week). your boss emailed another round of edits for you to make to this weeks report. you still havent scheduled that dentist appointment  nor answered that email about volunteering next week. and when you open your closet you realize its time to do laundry again.weve all (likely) been fed up enough with the routine daily grind  whether it be errands, chores, work, family responsibilities or any combination of the above  that we can relate to that i need a vacation feeling.theres this constant nonstop, says alexander cailllet, an organizational psychology consultant and coach and adjunct professor at georgetown university  explaining that the pace of work and other parts of our lives is only getting faster and faster in todays world. and our brains and bodies arent built to work that way, he says.many human beings are driven in a positive way by having some pressure, deadlines and challenges, says caillet, who is also ceo of corentus, a company that provides leadership coaching in the workplace. but were expected to respond to emails, texts and a myriad of other communication channels continuously. we run from back-to-back meetings and appointments. caillet says it can feel like a relentless march forward with no time off.it wears us down, he says. and thats why today more than ever we need to value time off  and take it. and take enough of it, he says. but vacation doesnt mean you need to fly to europe or some tropical beach necessarily. the time off caillet is talking about means unplugging from the everyday drudge and engaging in something different that leaves you feeling refreshed and rejuvenated. it might look like a two-week road trip, or it could be an afternoon hike, enjoying a good meal with interesting friends, or simply gardening for an hour in your backyard.its about giving ourselves a chance to step out of the stress, calm down, rebuild and regain that sense of balance, caillet says. its about the mindset.the vacation state of mind frees your brain for important mental processingthink back to the last time you completely lost track of time  when you were able to choose to do what you wanted to do in the moment. you werent worried. you werent thinking about what you had to do the next day. and you felt satisfied with whatever you were doing  and you werent questioning, judging, comparing or worrying that maybe you should be somewhere else or be doing something else.thats the vacation state of mind, explains brigid schulte, director of the better life lab at new america and author of the book \"overwhelmed: work, love, and play when no one has time.\" you feel okay with yourself and what youre doing. and youre giving yourself permission to be in the moment and let the moment unfold as it is, she says.the brain is designed to work in two modes, she says. we have the concentrated-vigilant on mode and then this spacey, day-dreaming mode. and you really need both. (its not that being in work mode is inherently a bad state of mind to be in, caillet adds. its just that you cant stay in that state of mind all the time. and thats an important point, he says.) the on mode is where we get things done. the unplugged mode is where your brain is freed up to have new ideas, fresh thoughts and make connections it wouldnt otherwise, she says. neuroscience explains the down time mode (default mode in science speak) is when we have insights, and that it plays an important role in our psychological mental processing, reading comprehension, divergent thinking skills, and our ability to feel social emotions.unplugging also gives you time to connect to your sense of self and to others  and take stock of the meaning youre getting out of life, schulte says. and getting in vacation mode is one way to get into that down time, daydreaming state of mind.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]getting away really only takes an instantthis is where we could cite dozens of studies that illustrate the benefits of vacation and down time (such as research that shows having reliable and predictable regular time off improves job satisfaction, perception of work/life balance, intention to stay in a job and performance). but if youre reading an article about how to get into the vacation mindset, you probably dont need another reason why you want to.what is helpful to know is that evidence suggests you can actually get into that mindset really quickly. one study that looked at brain activity in individuals as they watched videos for entertainment showed that that down time brain mode could be activated in a moment with the blink of an eye.it happens when you take a break from your day-to-day life, you focus on something else (whether its people, an experience or an adventure), and you engage in something different, caillet adds. youre immersed in it and youre curious about it, he says.another factor that you need to get you there, schulte says, is having a sense of choice in where you are and what youre doing (its not an obligation  you want to be there). and you need to feel a sense of control over time, meaning theres not something else youre watching the clock to rush off to.one psychological model of what makes leisure time leisurely suggests that five components help: detachment from work, autonomy, meaning, mastery (youre overcoming a challenge or honing a skill), and affiliation (having a feeling of belonging or association).how to get into that state of mind, statso how do you get to that state of mind? remember: vacation does not any one specific location make. you could be on the most exotic and luxurious beach in the world and be stressing out about a work email your phone just alerted you to, feeling like you cant afford the trip youre on, or the fact that more of your friends havent liked your vacay instagram post yet.dont be that wound-up vacationer. heres how to do your time off better.make the right kind of planwhether youre taking a month-long sabbatical or you just hired a babysitter to watch the kids and give you an afternoon off, start by deciding how you want to feel during that time off first, schulte says. then plan what you need to do (or might try) to get you there.do you need alone time? do you want to be in nature? do you want to be active? maybe you really just want a quiet afternoon to myself to read a book. or maybe you want to plan a big dinner party with friends you havent seen in a while.thats the type of planning that should come before you start looking at hotel reviews and airfare, schulte notes. a lot of times for vacations, the most important planning is the planning we dont do.set a perimetergive yourself some parameters as to what time off means. maybe its a week. maybe its three hours. but determine that time frame and determine what you want to be inside and outside of that perimeter you set, caillet says.maybe youre spending the entire day with your family. dont answer work emails. dont worry about getting back to your friends text about plans next week. it can wait. (though do make exceptions for true emergencies, caillet adds.)now respect that perimeternow that youve determined what you want your time off to look like and feel like, give yourself permission to go there and be with whats in front of you, caillet says. dont answer that text or that email or fit in that one extra task on your to-do list.does unplugging mean you need to disconnect from social media, too? not necessarily, caillet says  but be judicious about it. is it going to help you connect to, engage with and enjoy the experience? or is it going to bump you out of the experience?add music, dancing and good foodthink of that song you cant help but dance to. this is the time to blast it. music dramatically affects our mood and energy, caillet says. it can very quickly make us feel very happy or very relaxed or very excited.similarly a really good meal may trigger a memory of something really pleasant in your life (your grandmas cooking) or it might be exciting to try something new and different. food ignites taste and taste ignites smell, caillet says. and that can reawaken you, he says. (being in nature can help reawaken the senses, too, he adds.) the vacation state of mind is a lot about reigniting the senses.be presentstop. look around. notice things. listen. taste. touch. be curious, caillet says.one really straightforward way to be present, caillet notes, is to make it a point to learn something new. if youre with someone else, ask them a question. if youre on a hike, notice whats around you. what kind of trees do you see? whats the trail like? get into it, caillet says.more mental health helphow defusing my thoughts helped me claw my way back from debilitating anxiety7 steps for getting through a panic attackhow to worry betterhow to take a mental health daya daily ritual that will help you de-stress (in just 5 minutes)want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.