were the wicked queen from snow white to turn to her magic mirror and ask, \"who is the happiest of them all?\" its not a stretch to imagine that the mirror would flash on a nordic person eating cloudberries in a sauna. scandinavia, though surely not without its problems, just seems to get so much right. every year one of these northern european countries tops the world happiness report (this year finland cruised in at #1), driving our outsiders fascination with lifestyle trends like hygge and lagom, along with the nordic diet in general  and now, kalsariknnit, aka pntsdrunk.the name says it all, or most of it, anyway; pntsdrunk means to drink an alcoholic beverage in your pants  specifically your underpants, and its picking up interest in the u.s. theres even a new book out called \"pntsdrunk: kalsarikanni: the finnish path to relaxation\" by miska rantanen, indicating that this seemingly self-explanatory term is packed with heritage and nuances, and is rooted in a distinctly finnish way of interacting with the world and ones self.the original term for [pntsdrunk] is kalsariknnit, a tongue-in-cheek expression of a finnish feeling, basically meaning that feeling when you are going to get drunk at home, alone, in your underwear  with no intention of going out, says heikki vnnen, ceo and founder of the finnish startup happyornot. however, nowadays many finns throw the term around between close friends to hang out casually at home, and enjoy each others company in a quiet setting, with a few drinks, and, of course, sauna.the art of being alone  and loving itto americans, drinking alone can sound, well, lonely (and, as well get to shortly, problematic), but finns typically dont tend to see it that way, in part because theyre quite comfortable with solitude.\"finns, like most scandinavian cultures, are very good at being by themselves,\" says briana volk, the half-finnish co-owner of the portland hunt + alpine club, a scandinavian-influenced cocktail bar in maine, and the co-author of the forthcoming book, \"northern hospitality with the portland hunt + alpine club: a celebration of cocktails, cooking, and coming together.\" volk, fluent in finnish, was raised in astoria, oregon where she was part of strong finnish community.\"finns are fairly introverted and private, she tells nbc news better. we generally dont say hello to one another on the street or on the bus and were used to enduring long, tough winters  sometimes in total darkness. for these reasons, enjoying a drink or two by yourself is a natural thing.\"this isnt drinking alone to cope; its drinking alone to celebratecelebration, relaxation and re-centering are key to pntsdrunk, which is what makes it so radically different from our general understanding of lone alcohol consumption. in america, weve learned that drinking alone usually isnt healthy. your physician or therapist may bring up the question, do you drink alone? when theyre assessing your mental health. answering yes can be a red flag indicating alcoholic behavior.pntsdrunk is indeed drinking alone, but its not associated with problem drinking or alcoholism. first of all, as volk is quick to highlight, its not about getting drunk, nor is it about escapism, coping or avoiding people. its about indulging in me-time.if youre drinking alone because youre depressed or want to forget, thats not pntsdrunk, says volk. pntsdrunk is more like having a glass of wine or beer and reading a book [in the near-nude] after youve just had a long week where you kicked ass. now you want to celebrate with something delicious, which is why you also wouldnt go for the cheapest alcohol available, but something good and in moderation.pntsdrunk isnt for everyone, but it can be a great way to enjoy the occasional drinkscott keatley, a registered dietitian based in new york city finds value in pntsdrunk, not only because there are countless studies showing the benefit of the occasional drink, but also because its a great way to chill out without a care in the world.\"pntsdrunk is really permission to fully relax, which is why it is so great,\" keatley says. \"the idea is not to get wasted but to unwind, recharge [and get away] from the hustle and bustle.pntsdrunk as mindful drinkingpntsdrunk can even be a healthier, more moderate way to drink than when youre out with others.in the united states, we generally drink in groups, which is fine but its very hard to stop at one or two when someone in your group is ready to go for another, says keatley. drinking by yourself  in your underwear  frees you from that kind of peer pressure. it lets you drink a little slower, enjoy your thoughts and then quit once youre done. much like how we should eat mindfully, we should drink mindfully.choose the top-shelf booze and consider these finnish-style cocktailsvolk emphasizes that cheap alcohol or just whatever is available is an absolute no-no in the world of pntsdrunk. you want to aim for something high quality and low in alcohol content such as a light cocktail with finnish vodka, or a top-notch scandinavian beer of which the region has no shortage.i recommend a cocktail that is lower in alcohol, like a spritz or vermouth, so youre not getting drunk, because again, thats not the point, says volk, who also shares a couple of her own bars finnish-inspired cocktail recipes.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]the norseman(served in a double old-fashioned glass, chilled, with ice.)-2 oz. brown butter-washed aquavit (recipe available in her book)-1 tsp. rich simple syrup-2 dashes angostura bitters-2 green apple slices for garnish[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]finnish nail(served in a double old-fashioned glass with a large ice cube.)-2 oz. blended scotch-1/2 oz. drambuie-1/2 oz. hunt-alpine cardamom coriander syrup-lemon peel for garnishoptimizing pntsdrunk your experiencewhatever you choose to drink, make sure youre fully appreciating your alone time, preferably by putting all screens away.i dont think we as americans get much alone time, volk says. im married with two kids and personally, get very little of it. i also sleep with my phone next to me in case a work email comes in. were so constantly available that its nice to find ways to celebrate the moments when we dont have to be. i often feel my most creative and centered when by myself, says volk. why not have a delicious drink to make the most of it?undoubtedly, pntsdrunk is not for everyone. if you have a history of any alcoholic tendencies or concerns about your drinking habits then this activity might best be avoided. but if all is well, then maybe a toast to yourself, by yourself in little more than your birthday suit, is in order.next: what is the nordic diet  and why do doctors, dietitians and even psychiatrists like it so much?