fess up  raise your hand if youve dropped something on the floor and eaten it anyway, or skipped washing that apple or eaten pizza that sat out all night. mines up. but are those things so bad? robert gravani, professor emeritus of food science at cornell university, talked with nbc news better about some of the worst things were probably all doing in the kitchen, whats probably fine  and how we can all reduce our risk of food-borne bacteria and illness.you dont wash your produce: riskysay you grabbed a tomato out of your backyard garden, or youve got a delicious watermelon from the farmers market. you know where the tomato came from and you dont eat the watermelon rind, right? before you grab that knife, hold on. the deal is all produce that you buy either at retail or farmers markets or even in your home garden should be washed, dr. gravani said. when you cut it with a knife youll drag through anything [thats on the skin] as you cut into the flesh. remember that produce is grown in soil and certainly in the environment we have now [even as] growers are trying to reduce risks of bacterial contaminants, every once in a while we see issues where something goes wrong.to reduce risk of introducing bacteria, wash it under cool running water and pat it dry with a clean towel or paper towel, he said. if the produce is firm like melons or cucumbers, use a clean produce brush to brush it off  especially netted produce like cantaloupe because a lot of critters can hide in there.the wash wont get rid of everything, he said, but it reduces your risk. just dont overdo it, he cautioned, with soaps or detergents. cool water is all you need.you cut the moldy bit off the cheese and eat the rest: it dependsyoure just dying for that last wedge of camembert from last weeks party but  drat  its turning blue. blue cheese is good, so this cant be bad, can it? dr. gravani wants you to step away from the cheese. unless its a hard cheese, like cheddar, that is. its ok to eat the rest if you cut off at least an inch around and below the mold, he said, being sure to keep the knife out of the mold itself to avoid cross contamination. discard the mold and cover the cheese with fresh plastic wrap. the thing here is if the cheese is overwhelmed with mold, forget it  throw it out, its not worth the risk.when it comes to any soft cheeses  think neufchtel, cottage cheese, burrata  youre just out of luck. you cant trust that the mold is localized, he said.but why, when stinky gorgonzola is ok? molds used as part of the manufacturing process are not dangerous, he explained. theyre used to ferment the milk to create the flavors that we enjoy. molds not intentionally part of the process, on the other hand? some molds produce mycotoxins and they can be dangerous, he cautioned. some in fact, he said, can be cancer causing. moral of the story? finish the camembert before it has a chance to go bad.you let fido lick your plate: mostly okif you dont have pets, just move on, nothing to see here. but if your furry friend moonlights as a living, breathing garbage disposal and licks from your dishes, is that horrible? (asking for a friend.)turns out the more serious risk is that they can be ingesting products that may not be good for their digestive system, dr. gravani said. so be careful what youre feeding them. as for the human members of the family? we really want to do a good job of cleaning, he said, but as long as were washing dishes on a sanitation cycle  or high heat of 160 degrees  breathe easy. its ok, he said.were not the only ones who need our dishes sanitized, though. pet bowls were found the be the fourth germiest thing in the house and they should be washed daily. yep, daily, and if youre handwashing them they need weekly sanitation.you had last nights pizza for breakfast  after it sat out all night: riskyyou know what the usda says, dr. gravani said. theres nothing magical about pizza. anything over two hours at room temperature should be discarded. so why is this such a prevalent practice? what usually happens is some people dont see any adverse effects so they think its ok, he said. but just because youve been lucky so far doesnt mean youre home free. organisms that cause foodborne illnesses varying from very mild to significant can be lurking there with your olives and pepperoni. to be on the safe side, just cram the box into the fridge.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]youre still eating that food with last months date stamped on it: it dependsthis is so confusing to most consumers, dr. gravani said. they have no idea what these designations mean. i sure hope at some point we can get a handle on getting peoples definitions. in the meantime?every product has a usable shelf life and at some point the quality begins to deteriorate and thats usually what these dates mean, he said. you can eat some of these after the dates but use your senses. if its significantly lacking in quality you dont want to consume it. thats a little murky though. gravani agrees.the keeping quality of food still mystifies people because they have no clue. the good news is theres help available on your phone. gravani and cornell worked with food safety partners like the usda to develop a free app called the foodkeeper. its pretty cool, he said. theres basic information about dating but also a rough idea of the keeping quality of a variety of foods. its really a great app to get a sense of how long folks can keep something.you grill your steak and put it back on the same platter: very riskythat happens more than you think, dr. gravani said. hes seen it, in fact, when at a barbecue someone brings out raw meat on a platter and wants to put the cooked meat back on it. i quietly walk the platter back to the kitchen.certainly raw foods of animal origin contain pathogens, he said, so letting food youre going to eat touch raw meat is a definite no-go. not only that, he added, youve got to cook it thoroughly. how many people have thermometer? slim to none so its all eyeballing and we know undercooked hamburger causes illness. and that holds true whether or not you know where the meats coming from, he said. bacteria doesnt know the difference in a small or medium or large farm, or organic or conventional.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]you dropped your sandwich on the floor and ate it anyway: probably riskyahh, the good old five second rule. dr. gravanis former student and good friend donald schaffner, a food science professor at rutgers university, is a risk modeler who set out to get to the truth about that old adage. he looked at four different surfaces and four different foods and he inoculated the surfaces and he dropped the foods for a fraction of a second, less than five seconds, five seconds, and an extended time, dr. gravani said.the bottom line was the longer the contact the more bacteria so the five second rule is kind of an oversimplification of what happens when bacteria transfers to food. but, heres the key. no matter which food or which surface, they saw bacterial transfer. there was no safe amount of time to leave food on the floor and it is never completely risk free.so why do we do it? just like with the pizza phenomenon, if people drop it and dust it off and eat it with no consequence thats a learned response, he said. but from a microbiologist point of view thats a bad news situation.the worst thing most of us do every daywhats the biggest thing were all doing wrong? according to dr. gravani, the most important thing is just the simple act of handwashing. what a lost practice.before handling food or eating we need to wash our hands for 20 seconds, he said. its [singing] happy birthday twice. and thats the hard and fast rule at his house. even when friends come over to eat, we say we have a rule  we march everyone to wash their hands. if we could just bring that practice back, he said, i think that would reduce a lot of hassles.so should we all be aiming for a completely sterile kitchen? of course not. i dont think anyone is advocating for operating room conditions in your kitchen, dr gravani said. what were saying [is] across the board, the food agencies and health and agriculture departments, lets reduce the risk, there are some common practices we can use. these pathogens are all around now and organisms that we never thought about 20 years ago are now household names. we can still enjoy our food  remember its social, its about enjoying the moment and you dont want to make that a sterile lifeless situation. have fun but do it safely.and with that, ill go wash my hands.more healthy home hacksquick and easy diy cleaning hacks thatll make life easierhow often you should clean your home, according to sciencewhy the 20/10 method can change the way you cleanhow often to replace everything in your bathroom, bedroom and kitchen