i read a quote the other day that said those who are truly successful dont need a vacation away from work because their work is their passion.i respectfully disagree  with this quote, and with others who have the misguided belief that if you do what you love, vacation becomes obsolete. vacation isnt about escaping your job; its about making you better at it.but project: time offs latest research shows that some places in the united states are better than others at realizing this. the survey found that the states who are the worst at taking vacation are montana, delaware and rhode island, while those in colorado, virginia and arizona take the most time off. in colorado, the average employee takes 20.3 days of vacation  the most of any state and well ahead of the number two state, virginia, where the average is 18.9 days. but in montana, residents take the least amount of vacation at 16.3 days on average, followed by delaware with 16.5 days.and its not just taking those days, its how you use them that matters, too. our report, the \"state of american vacation 2018,\" found that workers who use the majority of their vacation days for travel are significantly happier than those who travel less or not at all.its something virginians understand. while the state is number two for the days used, it is number one for days spent traveling, with 12.2 days committed to getting away, compared to eight nationally. on the other end of the spectrum is south dakota, where employees spend a national low of 4.3 of their vacation days traveling and are also below average for days used. in case you think hard-working south dakotans had a leg up with all that time in the office, it was employees in virginia who were more likely to report receiving a recent raise and/or bonus than those in south dakota.on the same note, missourians take more time off than the average american, but only five of those days are used for travel vacations. they report lower than average happiness with their health and well-being and how they spend their time off.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]the argument for using more of your vacation days to travelif you love what you do, you should constantly be seeking ways to be better at it, right? and yes, vacation is one of the ways you can better your career. travel offers a new perspective that can inspire a creative breakthrough. and in todays economy, where innovative thinking is often more critical to a companys success than producing widgets, the employee with ideas can rise quickly. here are a few other reasons to work some travel into your schedule:better problem solving skills. vacation provides time for the brain to breathe and allows space to help solve problems. this is especially true when you step outside of your familiar daily routine and get away. there are countless examples of a vacation resulting in a eureka moment. from starbucks howard shultz finding vision for the company while strolling around italy in 1983 to instagrams kevin systrom taking a walk on the beach that inspired the idea of filters for the app, taking vacations can help fuel the work we are passionate about.increased job satisfaction. if you have passion for something, it doesnt leave you if you leave town. in fact, americans who travel with a larger share of their vacation time are more than twice as likely to say they are extremely happy with their job  the intense kind of happiness that would be most closely associated with being passionate  than those who travel with little or none of their days. not to mention that employees who travel more with their time off are 18 percent more likely to be promoted than those who travel very little.happier outside of the office. life outside of work is better for those who travel more, too. they report being 20 percent happier with their personal relationships and 56 percent happier with their health and well-being than those who travel with little or none of their vacation time.how to take advantage of your paid time offunfortunately, despite the convincing reasons to make that vacation request and indulge your wanderlust, most americans are not traveling much. more than half of us are not using all the time we earn, leading to 705 million vacation days being left on the table by american workers last year alone. far too many americans have the flawed assumption that this is part of our storied work ethic. but we havent always been this way. while we have shown improvement the last three years, the average american took 17.2 days last year, far fewer than the long-term average from 1978-2000 of 20.3 days.a passionate employee is a great thing. but an employee who is passionate to the point of forgoing other parts of her life is on track for burnout. it is time to stop perpetuating the stereotype that vacation is a threat to our professional success when it is more likely to be a driver of it. heres what we can learn from those states where people are putting up that out of office message and getting out of town.plan your time off far in advance. employees who take the time to plan out their vacation days in advance are far more likely than average to use all their earned days off. and the benefits of planning ahead dont stop there: the survey found that planners are happier in every category measured, including relationships, health and well-being, company and their job. planners also reported feeling more supported at work by their boss and coworkers when they take a vacation. get out your calendar or use project: time offs planner to put every last minute of time off to good use.use your vacation days to actually get away. another benefit of planning your time off in advance is being able to plan a trip during those days. while a staycation and your to-do list may be hard to resist, a vacation away from it all is going to have a bigger impact. americans taking all or most of their vacation days to travel are happier, less stressed and more successful.dont assume your boss is against vacation. south dakotan workers are the number one state for fearing they would lose consideration for a raise or promotion if they took time off. but the research shows that this just isnt the case. in fact, to the contrary, \"the state of american vacation 2017\" found that workers who forfeit vacation time are less likely to have received a recent raise or bonus (78% to 84%) or been promoted (23% to 27%) than those who did not. although most workplaces dont talk about vacation, managers are overwhelmingly supportive of their employees taking time off. make sure to give them plenty of notice, avoid peak busy times and prepare your co-workers for your absence.not sure where to go? start with climate. traveling is easier said than done. if youre not sure where to go, start by using climate as a jumping off point. if youre like the residents in west virginia and missouri, lounging on a tropical beach sounds like your ideal getaway, but if youre like the residents of hawaii, you may prefer to shred some snowy hills in a cooler climate. use climate and the activities that leave you feeling relaxed and re-energized to narrow down a location, and then do research on peak times for travel to that destination. by planning in advance, you can book your trip during the off-season and save money.be opportunistic with your remaining days. if you didnt use the days you had hoped to this year, theres still time. while the gold standard for vacation is still a week, consider a few long weekends this fall to explore places that wouldnt be on your typical summer vacation agenda.katie denis leads the project: time off initiative, a national campaign to prove that vacation travel is valuable and necessary for strengthening personal relationships, inspiring creative thinking, improving professional performance, and promoting better health.more travel hacks and tipssave $520 (or more) on your next flight with these 4 airfare hackshow to pack a carry-on (so you dont need to check a bag)how to find the best travel rewards credit card for youwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.