in the perfect world of instagram and pinterest, weekly meal prep is supposed to be easy. i love to throw a sheet pan dinner in the oven or a pot of soup on the stove for lunch the next day as much as the next gal, but life can get in the way fast  grocery stores get crowded, calendars fill up and occasionally a lunch bag gets forgotten in the fridge.just because youre in a pinch doesnt mean youre doomed to scavenge from the vending machine or spend a fortune on takeout. heres the fall-back plan i use to create meals and snacks from five (or seven, if im feeling hungry) convenience store items. keep a couple of these on hand at your desk and in the office fridge, and you can stay satisfied all day  without breaking the bank (or derailing your diet).7 items to grab at the convenience storeno sugar-added peanut butter (or the nut butter of your choice): $3.99plain greek yogurt (the 2 percent fat variety helps me feel full for longer): $1.69whole grain crackers: $4.99apples (grapes, strawberries or bananas would work as well): $1/each, or $5.99 for a boxa can of chickpeas or tuna: $1.49 &amp; $2.59hard-boiled eggs (1.19 for a pack of two)string or snack-sized cheddar cheese: ($0.99)these staples will keep for at least a few weeks unopened (except for pre-cut fruit), so theyre easy enough to keep on hand and restock as needed.[editors note: prices are based on a new york city-based convenience store and may vary in your area. to get these items even cheaper, scan your local grocery store circulars for better deals.]peanut butter apple parfaitjazz up plain yogurt with a chopped apple and a dollop of peanut butter. simple and classic, the combination of protein from the yogurt, healthy fat from the nut butter and fiber from the apple will keep you fuller longer than your morning bagel. for added flavor, top with cinnamon (and a small amount of honey, if needed) from the office kitchen.lightened up tuna/chickpea saladcombine half a can of your favorite protein, add a few tablespoons of greek yogurt and some salt, pepper and hot sauce or mustard  if spice is your thing  for a minimalist take on tuna salad. (if you opt for the vegetarian version, you can smash the chickpeas with the fork for a more condensed texture.) if you can find lemon wedges at your local coffee shop or in the office kitchen, add a squeeze for a brighter flavor. scoop up with crackers, or if you can sneak away to a pay-per-pound salad bar, put the mixture over some greens  theyre so lightweight, they often dont cost much. for extra protein, slice an egg on top.grown up open-faced pb&amp;ja crunchier version of our first option, top a few crackers with peanut butter and apple slices for a more desk-friendly, bite-sized take on a peanut butter sandwich.afternoon cheese plateskip the pricey snack boxes from your local coffee joint and make your own. slice up a combination of cheese and fruit, a small portion of nuts or a boiled egg and a few whole grain crackers for a quick, protein-packed meal in a pinch.more healthy lunch hacksa weeks worth of healthy lunches for under $20 how to boost the nutrition (and flavor) in your sad desk salad7 healthy recipes you can make in your instant pot in minutesthe healthiest picks at panera breadwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.