the national institute on alcoholism and abuse defines low-risk drinking for women as no more than seven drinks per week and 14 drinks a week for men  but a recent study published in the lancet might call for a rethink.examining data from almost 600,000 participants, the study found consuming more than 100 grams of alcohol  or roughly more than five drinks a week  was associated with an increased risk of mortality and could take years off your life.if these studies have you examining how much youre drinking, the mindful drinking movement promises to help those with a desire to cut down on their drinking  but maybe not quit altogether. born in the uk and catching on stateside, mindful drinking has spawned a series of events, a popular book  even a study that explores the effect mindfulness has on curtailing alcohol consumption.rosamund dean, a magazine editor and author of \"mindful drinking: how cutting down can change your life\", says though she knew she wasnt an alcoholic, she often drank considerably over recommended limits.people think that there are two types of drinker: alcoholics, whose drinking is ruining their lives and who ought to quit altogether, and normal drinkers, who have a healthy relationship with alcohol. this is utter nonsense, says dean. there are plenty of people who dont need to go into recovery but, nevertheless, drink too much and really should do something about it, for the sake of their health, wealth and happiness.dean says she wrote her book to help herself and others gain control of their drinking. though the term mindful might imply some sort of meditation, deans book is more about gaining self-awareness and shifting your habits around drinking from mindless to mindful consumption.i used to drink wine at home almost every night, evenings out with friends would always involve cocktails and, after a stressful day in the office, a g&amp;t was all i needed to relax. now, i think of alcoholic drinks in the same way that i think about cake or ice-cream. if its a friends birthday or another special occasion, ill almost definitely have an alcoholic drink. but i no longer drink every day just as i wouldnt have cake every day, and i certainly dont have four drinks in a row anymore, because imagine having four ice-creams all at once! dean says.knowing when to say whenknowing when to cut back on alcohol consumption can be difficult and varies for every person. \"national guidelines are a good place to start, however, every persons situation is unique and requires an individualized answer,\" says jared james, m.d., family medicine, mayo clinic health system. dr. james also says that youve ever felt like you should cut back, \"a loved one or a health care professional may be able to provide a more objective opinion and support them in their efforts to decrease alcohol consumption.\"support is key in social situationssocial situations can present the biggest challenge for those looking to drink less. thats why laura willoughby, co-founder of the uk-based mindful drinking festival and support organization club soda, was inspired to create a social space for non-drinkers when she quit imbibing six years ago. there was nothing out there for people who did not identify as alcoholic, or those who wanted help to do a self-guided journey to change their drinking. i wanted a community that supports you whatever your goal  cut down, stop for a bit or quit  and saw changing habits as a positive life change.there are plenty of people who dont need to go into recovery but, nevertheless, drink too much and really should do something about it, for the sake of their health, wealth and happiness.with more than 2,000 participants at her events and programs, willoughby says the mindful drinking movement has gained so much steam because the word mindful implies a sense of self control. it gives you the space to reflect on when, when, what and with whom you drink, which is the foundation for all behavior change, she says.how to drink more mindfullyso how, exactly, do you go about drinking mindfully? dean offers these pointers:prepare mentally for social drinking. always have a plan for when you intend to drink and how much, says dean. never make an exception on the spur of the moment.dont stress-drink. dont use alcohol to deal with difficult or stressful situations, such as family dramas or office politics, dean advises. tempting as it may be, it never makes things situation better.let slip-ups inform you. \"if you wake up feeling terrible, do not feel that now you might as well give up, says dean. instead, take the opportunity to think about what was the situation/feeling/people that make you drink more than you intended, and decide a different way that you might deal with that same situation in the future.researchers are looking into mindful drinkingalthough more research is needed, a small 2017 university college of london study found that 11 minutes of mindfulness training may help drinkers cut back on booze.half of the 68 drinkers underwent a 11-minute mindfulness training session where they were encouraged to stay present and aware of their bodies and their cravings, while the other half of the drinkers were taught relaxation techniques. the result? the mindful drinkers drank less over the next week.though the study didnt look at how mindfulness might have helped to reduce drinking, sunjeev kamboj, ph.d., coordinator for international dclinpsy trainees at the research department of clinical, educational &amp; health psychology at the university college london and one of the authors of the study, thinks mindfulness encourages a particular way of paying attention to your body and external environment, which makes it less likely youll thoughtlessly respond to cravings. they might notice danger signals in the environment or in their bodily reactions and stop themselves from reacting immediately to an urge to drink,\" says kamboj.so, before ordering yet another round, stay present. you might change the way you drink now and in the future.more on drinking and your healthwhat its like to give up alcohol in a wine mom worldhow to talk to your kids about drinkinghow i learned to cope with stress when i gave up alcoholhow to bounce back from a hangoverwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.