anyone whos ever looked forward to something big and exciting knows too well what follows. whether its a wedding, vacation, big holiday  or even just a particularly nice long weekend  invariably the good times have to come to an end. and then come the post-event blues.you know the feeling: youve been planning and looking forward to this big thing for a good chunk of time. it may have become all consuming. and it was wonderful. but now its over and its back to the usual hum-drum. ive been there. after the kentucky derby this year when the mint juleps stopped flowing and i traded by big hat and fancy dress for work-from-home attire, it was hard to just sit at my laptop. of course after every trip to paris its the same letdown. thinking about a major event like a wedding? the struggle must be real.to find out how we can all cope with the post-whatever the case may be blues, i talked with jocelyn charnas, a clinical psychologist practicing in manhattan  also known as the wedding doctor  for her work helping couples deal with the very real aftermath of their big day.what youre feeling is realand she wants you to know, that yes, when it comes to the blues like this, it absolutely is a real thing. ive felt it in my own life and i see it in my office very week, she said. any life event that we look forward to we run the risk of having a little bit of the blues after. its sort of a normal human experience.when it comes to weddings, charnas said, a lot of it stems from the tremendous expectations that we put on the wedding date and the tremendous focus that we put on it in the months preceding it. one could argue that it has gotten worse in the era of social media  the behemoth of the wedding industry, the idea that this should be quote unquote the best day of our lives, women can spend years [planning this one day].after sinking so much energy into one day, its almost inevitable that after the fact there is a sense of disappointment and letdown, she said. in a way its a loss that we mourn.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]how to get ahead of the letdownso what can we do about it? well, to start, even expecting and respecting that there will be those feelings gives us license to feel the blues, charnas said. the worst thing we can do in invalidate our own feelings and kick them under rugs. it should be normalized, this is something we look very forward to and its natural. theres no way to get rid of it completely.if its the best day of your life thats wonderful, but the truth is its just a party to signify the start of a life together.but you can help mitigate it, she said. a big one i work on with clients as theyre approaching their wedding and marriage is to shift their focus from the wedding to the marriage itself and the relationship. that not only helps ease the blues, she said, but is important in regaining perspective. if its the best day of your life thats wonderful, but the truth is its just a party to signify the start of a life together.another technique for minimizing letdown in the aftermath  not just for weddings, but for anything that can take over our lives  is to try to be aware when we are being all consumed, whether its wedding, renovation, whatever it is. in her work with couples, charnas encourages them to not make the wedding all there is in their lives. have two days where you dont talk about it, she said. the idea is to balance our focus so that its not such a disproportionate piece of our lives, so were not so starved [for it] after the fact.when shes working with a couple she thinks this may be a big issue for, she suggests maybe not going on the honeymoon immediately after the wedding, but spreading things out so there are more things to look forward to. because its only natural to want to look forward to something, she said. i love to have a vacation on the horizon  it brings me pleasure. its wonderful to set things up in life that ill get joy out of. she cautioned, however, the problem is when its never enough, when we cant tolerate not having something to look forward to. we have to ask ourselves, she said whats going on when daily life isnt meeting our needs?another contributor to the blues phenomenon is forgetting the rest of our life when were immersed in the big event. sometimes when were so focused on one thing its at the expense of other things, charnas said. when we put off other things for a long time were then faced with the enormity of those things [afterwards]. whether youre planning a wedding, a big vacation, or a whole house renovation, life must go on, she said.you have to be realisticheres the thing. yes, we can take these steps to address the blues, said charnas. but, some of this has to be expected. despite whats on instagram we are not going to be happy every single day of our lives. some days were happy, some days were nervous, some days not much of anything happens. this idea that every day has to be this fabulous instagram filtered event leads people to those unrealistic idea of what life should be like. coming back to work after vacation that stinks, thats a bummer for everyone. maybe there doesnt need to a way to mitigate that. we have to be able to have the blues after vacation so we can look forward to the next one.more coping strategiesa daily ritual that will help you de-stresshow to bounce back from headline stress disorderwhy the simple act of being in nature helps you de-stresswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.