credit card delinquencies on the rise. despite a strong economy and low unemployment, americans are falling behind in paying off their credit card debt.the delinquency rate on all u.s. credit card loans is 2.47 percent  up from 2.42 percent at the beginning of 2017 and 2.12 percent in the second quarter of 2015, according to the federal reserve bank of st. louis.that means more than $23 billion in credit card debt is currently delinquent  30 or more days overdue  according to a new report from the personal finance website nerdwallet.while lack of money is the most common reason for missing a payment, forgetting to pay the bill is often the case. for its 2018 consumer credit card report, nerdwallet surveyed 2,019 u.s. adults and found that:35 percent simply forgot to make the payment.33 percent needed the money to pay for essentials.32 percent needed the money for an unexpected expense.kim palmer, nerdwallets credit card expert, finds it troubling that so many people  65 percent of those surveyed  did not pay their bill on time because they didnt have the money. according to nerdwallets most-recent household credit card debt study, income growth isnt keeping up with some of peoples biggest expenses.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]peoples budgets are really stretched because the cost of certain essentials, like healthcare, food and housing, continue to go up and really put pressure on peoples budgets, palmer said. and so, people are turning to credit cards as a way to bridge the gap when they cant afford their monthly bills and then theyre unable to make the payments at the end of the month.nerdwallets report found that 25 percent of those whove been delinquent on a credit card payment said it was because they prioritized paying off other debt.peoples budgets are really stretched because the cost of certain essentials, like healthcare, food and housing, continue to go up and really put pressure on peoples budgets.research by the federal reserve in 2017 found that when theres not enough money to cover all monthly bills, credit card bills are more likely than other debt payments  rent or mortgage, car payment, or student loan  to go unpaid or partially unpaid.the high cost of paying latemore than one in five cardholders in the survey (21 percent) said they made a delinquent credit card payment sometime in their life. nerdwallet did the math: using a late payment fee of $27, thats more than $1.4 billion in penalty payments on a nationwide basis. and thats on top of the interest charged for carrying a balance.adding insult to injury, falling more than 60 days behind can trigger whats called the penalty apr which can be as high as 29.99 percent with some cards. that penalty apr, which makes it more expensive to carry that balance, can last for up to six months before the credit card company reviews your account to see if the rate should be lowered.lets say you carry a balance of $3,000 on a card with a 15 percent interest rate and it takes you 18 months to pay off that balance. the credit card payoff calculator at bankrate.com shows total interest will be $368. with a default rate of 29.99 percent, that jumps to $761, more than double the carrying cost.missing a payment can also decimate your credit score, because card issuers report delinquent accounts to the credit bureaus.the longer your account goes unpaid, the more damage you can do to your credit score and the more effort it will take to bring the account current, said bruce mcclary, vice president for communications at the national foundation for credit counseling (nfcc). once reported, a late payment could cause your credit score to drop more than 100 points in some situations.a poor credit score will make the cost of borrowing money more expensive and could result in being rejected for a mortgage or car loan. in some case, it could make it difficult or impossible to rent an apartment.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]what you can doall of these financial repercussions can be avoided with a more proactive approach, including:use automatic bill payset up email and text reminders of upcoming due datesat least make the minimum payment to keep the account from going delinquentif your statement comes at the wrong time of month for you, contact the credit card company to see if the statement date can be changed.when a late payment is unavoidable due to financial hardship, contact the credit card company before the due date to see if they can help you manage the situation. this would also be the time to get some expert guidance from a nonprofit credit counselor. you can find one near you on the nfcc website.silence will only lead to setbacks, mcclary told nbc news better. keeping your credit card balances under control and spending within your budget will go a long way toward protecting your credit health and your bottom line.more from betterhow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayshow stashing receipts saved one man over a $1,000 in 7 monthswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram