i never had any doubt that serena williams could rock a catsuit  or even a tutu, as she did this week at the u.s. open. and i definitely never doubted her ability to win another grand slam title one year  almost to the day  of becoming a mom. she is a superstar athlete who does everything with one goal in mind: winning.perhaps thats why, in previous years, it never crossed my mind that serena is just like me. but as she opened up about pregnancy, her harrowing birth story and the vulnerability of motherhood, we all started to feel that way. last week, on the eve of her return to the u.s. open, i sat down with williams on \"today\" to talk about her grand slam goals, embracing her critics and how she works through \"mom guilt\" with the help a few million friends on social media.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]this interview was edited and condensed for clarity.walk me through your year.williams: oh, its been an amazing year. having the baby and then coming back  its so special to have olympia turn one soon. maybe ill be playing on that day and ill just have those memories of being in the hospital and giving birth to my daughter. its been an amazing year, and i really look forward to getting back [to competing]. its going to be great.do you feel joyful?williams: you know, i feel a different joy. ive always been this joyful person, but now its just totally different. i feel just light. i feel lighter and happier. and its just a great feeling.youre back in new york and people are saying its a comeback. you very eloquently stole a line from l.l. cool j. and said, \"dont call it a comeback.\" why?williams: i was gone so i guess it is a comeback if you break it down. but for me, i was always there mentally. i always was watching and being a part of it. and i never wanted to hang up my racket at that point. so, im just still trying to compete and win grand slams  and do it while i have a daughter.does it show how tough people are on women? im guessing when your husband went back to work after olympia was born, no one called it a comeback tour for him.williams: exactly. right? but it is true. no one called his work a comeback, and he had to take time off, too. but, yeah, women definitely have a double standard in so many different things.and thats what im doing now. im lobbying and trying to break down all these double standards that we have to face on a daily basis. and just let people know that were here to stay, obviously, and we deserve to be treated just like our male counterparts.is it more important to win as a mother than it was before?williams: you know, its hard to say  i want to win, whether im a mom or not. obviously i want to win while having olympia. one day ill tell her that, you know, she was born and i still kept winning. but at the same time, i dont have to win another match in my whole life. ive done so much in my career, and right now i want to just focus on having fun out there. and ironically enough, thats when i started to play my best tennis.most of us would have guessed, given your training and travel schedule, you would not have your baby by your side, but you have. and youre not taking it as a burden. youre taking it as a gift.williams: i am taking it as a gift. we spent every day together since she was born, and i work around her. but im really fortunate. a lot of women dont have that opportunity.and, you know, in a weird way im kind of doing it for those women that cant. being around her every day is super important, and i want her to have just a great upbringing, the best way that i know how.youve shared this year that sometimes you worry that youre not going to be a good mom. all of us have that fear. but with you, everything youve ever done, youre excellent at. whos guiding you through this?williams: i have my mom. shes had five kids, and so thats really cool. but what i think is super interesting is the fact that im relying on everyone else. i think in this age of social media, it presents a different opportunity.i feel like moms are all  you know  were all the same people.so when im feeling down or im feeling stressed, i literally will write about it. ill go on either snap, instagram, twitter, facebook and i post an article. and i get the most impressive feedback and help. and i feel like im getting so much help from all the moms  and dads, by the way  and parents out there.like, when i missed olympias walking and i posted about it, and so many parents wrote in and said, \"dont worry about it. i missed it too!\" and i didnt realize that it was almost more normal to miss it than to make it. and so when i realized that, i was like, \"wow. this is great.\" so i really kind of rely on everyones help out there, and its been so, so, so amazing.we all have that guilt. what have those women and men told you?williams: its been so unreal. another time i said i didnt feel like i was being a good mom, and everyone was just chiming in and so supportive. and saying, \"by the way, we felt this way too.\" and so for me, it makes me just feel okay.i feel like moms are all  you know  were all the same people. it doesnt matter what race you are, what color you are, what background youre from. i feel like we all have a connection. we just want to help each other out. so im really using social media in a way to help me understand my struggles with my baby.do you ever worry that sharing this much only gives a narrative to the critics who want to doubt you?williams: i dont feel like im doing too much and giving critics a narrative. in fact, i love critics. i feel like you need the good and need the bad. superman needs lex luthor.and someone once told me  billie jean king  that pressure is a privilege. and im in a position where i feel that weight on my shoulders actually a privilege for me.what do you want to say to new york  to the world?williams: well, this is just the beginning. and for every new mom out there, this is the beginning of a new life. and its how i feel. this is the beginning of a new career for me.im not going be gone after the open. im going be in the next grand slam and the next and the next and the next and the next. its just going to keep going. and so yeah, im going for this one, but if not, theres one in january and theres four more. and therell be eight more. so, for me, its just the beginning...\"more stories on navigating motherhoodhow being a boss makes me a better mom3 things moms dont need to worry about when going back to workwhat its like to give up alcohol in a wine mom worldamerica has a motherhood problem  heres how to solve itwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram. by taboola sponsored storiesavoid grammatical errors with this helpful browser extensiongrammarlydo you know what your last name means?ancestry