every six seconds, a pet owner is faced with a vet bill of more than $1,000  and if youre a pet owner, chances are pretty good youve been hit with bills far more expensive than that. treating stomach conditions (the most common serious illness for dogs and cats) can cost up to $6,500, according to a new study by healthypaws pet insurance.veterinary expenses can be doubly traumatic to a household, emotionally and financially. its awful watching your pet suffer, and it can be incredibly distressing to know that the bills for their care have destroyed your budget for the month, or even the year.every six seconds, a pet owner is faced with a vet bill of more than $1,000.everyday i see people making important medical decisions about their pets based on their ability to afford care, says dr. christie long, chief veterinarian at petcoach, a purveyor of vet-curated pet food, supplies and educational resources. those conversations are tough. sometimes we arent able to take the best care of a pet due to a persons ability to pay, and sometimes we even have to euthanize. its scary how money can prevent us from doing whats in the pets best interest.even if your pet avoids any serious accidents and injuries, the annual cost of pet ownership is still an important item to include in your budget the average bill is $1,270 for a dog, and $1,070 for a cat, according to the aspca. and while theres no way to completely eliminate the possibilities of a health catastrophe for your pet, there are ways to lessen the financial blow when disaster strikes, and prevent health problems from arising. we checked in with experts to find out what you need to do.get pet insurance  earlypet insurance has become big business  pet parents spent $1.03 billion in premiums in 2017  but surprisingly few animals are insured. out of 183 million dogs and cats in the u.s., only 1.83 million of them are currently insured, according to pet insurance quotes, an independent review site and marketplace for pet insurance.its scary how money can prevent us from doing whats in the pets best interest.pet insurance policies generally range in price from $25 per month to $45 per month depending on your pets breed, age and where you live. these standard accident and illness policies cover a wide range of treatment from hip replacements to nasal surgery to cancer. some providers also offer wellness and routine care coverage for around $20 per month on average, according to nick braun, founder of pet insurance quotes.\"just like home or auto insurance, pet insurance companies rate differently, so we encourage pet parents to compare plans and prices from at least three providers in order to find the best value, braun says. while all pet insurance plans can be used at any licensed veterinary clinic or speciality hospital, with no restrictions, no pet insurance covers pre-existing conditions. this is why we strongly encourage pet parents to enroll while their pet is young and healthy, braun says.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]set aside money for emergenciessavings accounts are a good idea for all pet parents  even those with insurance  because pre-existing conditions, dental care, and most check-ups wont be covered, depending on the policy you choose. put money away, and if you dont ever need to use it, then you can save it for your next animal. but for most pets, its not a matter of if theyll get sick, its when, says rob jackson, ceo and co-founder of healthy paws.one cost that often comes as a shock to pet parents is for diagnostics, jackson says. your four-legged friends cant tell you what they ate or where it hurts, so the vet will have to do different diagnostic tests, and oftentimes youre looking at $1,000 to $2,000 just to diagnose a problem, before youve even begun to treat it.the worst thing you can do is to put everything off until its too late  and if you dont have money saved and you dont have insurance, youll wind up putting everything on a credit card, braun says. most people go through life hoping that nothing bad happens, but this is your pets life at stake, and these decisions really cant be put off.be a responsible (and vigilant) pet parentanimal-proofing your house is a lot like child-proofing your house  make sure there is nothing dangerous for them to swallow, that they cant electrocute themselves by chewing on wires, and that they cant fall off of high surfaces, long says. i have two little dogs so i dont have to worry about leaving things on the kitchen counter, but a big dog can put his paws up on the counter and get whatevers up there, she says.unfortunately, the great outdoors can be even more dangerous than your home  though it may seem like your pet is longing to roam alone outdoors, its not always the best idea. as humans, we have to make the best decisions for our animals, and traumatic accidents, like getting hit by a car, or mauled by another animal, are common causes of serious injury in pets. never let your pet wander off leash, or ride in an open car or truck that they can jump out of.preventive care is also hugely important for dogs and cats, which includes vaccinations, but so much more, long says. something like heartworm prevention costs around $6 per month, but can cost $1,000 to treat, depending on when its discovered. likewise, monthly prevention against fleas and ticks is around $10 per month, but treating a lyme infection can easily run $2,000, and often the prognosis is not good, long says.theres no substitute for having your vet see and put hands on your animal every year, as they catch problems early, when they are easier and less expensive to treat, long says. the vet may notice subtle changes in the sound of a pets heart that can only be picked up with a stethoscope, and feel for changes in the size and shape of internal organs that can indicate a problem. pets under five years of age should be taken for a check-up at least once per year, and pets over five should go twice per year.with kathryn tugglemore on petswhat your dogs behavior says about youforget what youve heard. being a cat lady is healthy.how dogs teach us to stop worrying and just be happywhy dogs are good for our health and help us cope with lifewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.