if youve ever struggled with your weight, youve probably blamed your metabolism. and its an easy scapegoat because you only have so much control over it.youre blessed or cursed with a certain level of metabolism, confirms dr. larry cheskin, associate professor at the johns hopkins university school of medicine, and the johns hopkins bloomberg school of public health, director of the johns hopkins weight management center and the clinical research director of hopkins global obesity prevention center. to start, simply knowing someones gender can clue you in about their metabolism. women have lower metabolic rate than men because theyre usually shorter and weigh less, so every step they take takes less energy than someone of a larger size. this is why women often bemoan the fact the fact that men seem to lose weight more easily or eat whatever they want and still lose weight.how your metabolism worksin laymans terms, your metabolism is your rate of burning energy, and the calories youll need to consume to expend that energy. your metabolic rate is how many calories do you need in a day to expend the energy to live in terms of how many calories you will burn. you need more energy to run than to sleep, but your body also needs energy to breathe and for your heart to beat, explains cheskin. this is why calories factor into weight loss  it all boils down to consuming fewer calories than you expend. to get to the magic number of base calories you need, youll have to factor in your height, weight, age and gender.by measuring your breath, your doctor or a medical professional can measure your resting metabolic rate by measuring how much carbon dioxide you exhale, and how many calories you need at rest, and how many you need to eat to keep yourself going.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]metabolism slows with agegillian mueller goddard, m.d., endocrinologist at park avenue endocrinology &amp; nutrition pllc in new york city, says aging slows metabolism  especially for women, due to decreased lean muscle mass as we age. women often note that their metabolisms slow dramatically during their late 40s and 50s. they have to really adjust their eating habits and exercise routines to maintain a healthy weight, due to changes in estrogen levels during perimenopause, says goddard.sometimes, your metabolism is off for another reasonother than age, there are a few chronic health conditions that can affect metabolism. hyper- and hypothyroidism are conditions caused by an overactive or underactive thyroid gland. fortunately, both conditions can be treated with medication. polycystic ovary syndrome, or pcos, is another health condition experienced by women that is often associated with insulin resistance and a slower metabolism.goddard says typical signs of a sluggish metabolism include lack of appetite, unexplained weight gain and generally feeling sluggish or slow. people sometimes also fell like their thinking is foggy, or that they are requiring more sleep than previously to feel rested, she explains.on the other side of the coin, if your metabolism is a little over amped, goddard says symptoms include increased appetite, unexplained weight loss or feeling like you can eat anything and not gain or maintain your weight. some people find they require less sleep and may have difficulty staying asleep. others notice increased sweating, she says.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]exercise is keyphysical activity is the one thing people understand they should do to boost their metabolism, but often dont. muscles have more density than fat and burn more calories when you arent using them, cheskin explains. it doesnt mean you have to go to a gym. it burns more calories to stand instead of sit, sit instead of lie. it all adds up. resistance and strength training help your body to burn more calories, but it doesnt mean you have to lift huge weights. you can use your own body weight to engage your muscles.goddard agrees. exercise is always the best way to jump start a sluggish metabolism, she says. both aerobic exercise and resistance training increase metabolism in different ways and both are important. aerobic exercise burns calories while you are doing it and increases your metabolic rate for several hours afterward. resistance training increases lean muscle mass, which is more metabolically active than fat, even when we are at rest.what about diets that claim to boost metabolism?special diets, like intermittent fasting, claim to boost metabolism by fasting and restricting meals to certain windows of time. but do they really work? cheskin took part in a review of alternate day fasting diets that concluded they work about as well as any other reasonably healthy diet.though goddard says caffeine and spicy foods like cayenne pepper are reported to boost metabolism, the boost is marginal, at best. if these foods worked to increase metabolism, we would all be eating them in huge quantities, she explains.ultimately, cheskin says losing weight always boils down to eating fewer calories than you burn consistently, over a period of time. diet fads come and go, but what diet will you stick with for the longer term? as long as it isnt crazy restrictive or unhealthy, the diet you stick with is the best diet, says cheskin.so, like most things concerning weight loss, theres no magic bullet when it comes to metabolism other than eating well, exercise, patience and perseverance. mostly perseverance.weight-loss success stories (and tips to borrow)how a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthis man lost 50 pounds with intermittent fastingthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weight