homeowners insurance costs an average of $1,083 annually across the us  but that number varies widely from state to state. for example, annual premiums in florida average $2,055, while policyholders in oregon pay just $574.its difficult to nail down exact policy pricing because multiple factors go into your specific calculation, says angela orbann, vice president of personal insurance products at travelers insurance. which state you live in is a big one  coastal homes come with different risks than those located in the midwest, for example  but your insurer will also consider the size, age and characteristics of your house, prior losses and features that qualify you for discounts or credits.insurance companies offer policy discounts in the form of credits or reduced premiums for home upgrades that could minimize the need to file a claim as well as the dollar amount paid out for claims that do come through. basically, it costs insurers less to reduce premium prices than it does to pay for damages and losses.some of these home improvement projects are expensive upfront, which means it could take years for insurance discounts to match what you spend on the upgrade. however, reducing the cost of your insurance is just one of the advantages of making the investment. a new roof or storm-resistant windows, for example, could save you thousands of dollars in damages in the event of a hurricane or hailstorm, while home security can stop a burglar in his tracks.these devices are protection that will save you from the pain of a loss, so theyre good preventative measures in addition to making sure you have sufficient insurance coverage, says jenny naughton, executive vice president at chubb personal risk services.here are four upgrades to consider  and how theyll pay off over time.home securitya home security system is one of the simplest upgrades homeowners can make to reduce both policy costs and the risk of loss due to burglary, accidents and storms. home security generally falls under insurance companies protective device discounts and may include everything from door sensors and smoke alarms to centrally monitored systems that automatically notify emergency personnel if a problem arises.home security systems cost $685-$994 on average to install, and monitoring services range from $20 to $70 per month. there are a number of diy, self-installation systems that wont require a hefty installation fee, though you will pay for the cost of the equipment. you can also track some systems and devices yourself from your smartphone, but youre likely to qualify for the largest discount with third-party monitoring.insurers report that homeowners can save around 10% on their policies for installing home security, which adds up to $108 annually based on average premium costs. because monitoring is an ongoing monthly cost, youre unlikely to recoup the total amount spent. however, the average loss due to burglary was $2,361 in 2016, which makes the upfront cost of home security sound a bit more appealing.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]water shutoff devicesaccording to data from the insurance information institute (iii), water damage accounted for nearly 30% of losses in 2016, and the average loss between 2012 and 2016 totaled $9,633. devices that cut off a homes water supply when they detect damage to pipes, water lines and plumbing can prevent significant damage and save homeowners an average of 3% on their premiums, according to trevor chapman, a farmers insurance spokesman.water leak sensors are another category of protection. however, they merely detect moisture in places where it shouldnt be, such as behind a washing machine or toilet, and dont actively cut water flow. theyre useful but unlikely to qualify you for the same level of discount.water shutoff devices cost $174-$208, on average, to install. with an average annual discount of $32, it would take between 5.4 and 6.5 years to pay off and start saving you money.storm-safe windowswind and hail was the number one cause of loss in 2016, according to the iii  about 1 in 40 homes has a claim in this category each year. one of the main upgrades to prevent wind damage, particularly in hurricane-prone areas, is storm-safe windows: impact-resistant glass and roll-down shutters, for example.wind-related discounts and credits vary widely and may only be applicable if you live in a state with high wind risk or meet specific retrofit requirements. naughton says that those who live in wind-prone areas could see a 10-15% credit on their policy for wind protection upgrades.storm windows cost an average of $4,656 to install. with an average annual discount of $108-$162, it would take awhile to recoup the cost from the upgrade alone (were talking between 28 and 43 years), but if you do live in an a high-risk area, it could save you thousands in repairs should a bad storm damage your home.upgraded roofinga new roof is a significant  and expensive  undertaking. however, a bad roof can cost you a lot. if your roof leaks, youre likely to face rotting wood and interior water damage. if its weak, hail and high-impact storms can break through.insurers offer several types of discounts for roof upgrades. one is an impact-resistant roof discount for roofs that protect against lightning and hail. another is a roof age discount, which applies to homes with newer roofs.roof discounts may range from 5% to 35%. the average roof costs $7,484  your discount would save you between $54 and $380 annually, which means it would take between 20 and, well, a lot of years to pay back.of course, the more your insurance policy costs, the greater the impact these upgrades will have on your savings. experts stress, however, that even if homeowners dont recoup every dollar spent, these upgrades are still valuable when it comes to risk reduction. policy savings are a nice bonus, not the primary reason to add these protections to your property.when  and how to upgrade your homenaughton says that the best time for homeowners to make major upgrades is when theyre already building or renovating. while water shutoff devices can be fairly simple to set up, replacing a roof is likely to be more invasive.before you make any voluntary upgrades, however, check with your insurance agent about how they will impact your policy coverage and costs. you may be required to use certain materials or meet specific certification standards to be eligible, and not all discounts are available in every state. to get relevant credits or premium reductions once youve completed a project, submit receipts or proof of purchase to your agent.orbann also advises reviewing your policy with your agent on an annual basis to determine what additional discounts you qualify for  and to be proactive rather than reactive to reduce your risk.one of the most important ways to save is to perform general maintenance around the property to prevent damage before it actually occurs, she says. if you remain loss-free, typically theres a significant loss-free discount that would apply to your policy.more tricks and tips for a better homehow to survive a power outagethe kitchen is the germiest room. heres how to deep clean everything.how often to clean (almost) every appliance in your homehow to spruce up your home on a budgetwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.