i met my husband, patrick, on okcupid a little over five years ago, shortly before tinder launched and the yea or nay swiping aspect became so popular. i imagine that if i were single now, i may not exactly prosper with this model of dating that fosters both feelings of instant gratification and instant rejection.id likely incorporate a slow-dating approach, a trend that has been picking up steam. when i first heard the term, embraced by dating apps like once and hinge, i thought it meant to date, well, slowly, perhaps even taking the old-fashioned approach of delaying a first kiss; but its actually about dating mindfully and meaningfully  and not necessarily by sacrificing momentum.slow dating isnt necessarily slow, but it is thoughtfuli define it as a more thoughtful approach to dating, hinge founder and ceo justin mcleod says. weve noticed a trend towards helping people find more meaningful connections for some time now. we do this by designing profiles that show off what makes you, you. and we encourage you to put yourself out there, just a little, by liking a specific part of someones profile. its not only a natural way to start a conversation, but it helps cut through the small talk so you can get out on a date faster. its clear singles are craving [this] more thoughtful approach. in the last year, hinges active member base has increased 400 percent.sara konrath, phd, a social psychologist and consultant for okcupid, likens slow dating to other mindfulness approaches weve implemented in our daily lives.just like the slow food movement is a reaction to cheap and unhealthy fast food, the slow dating movement is a reaction to quick and meaningless hookups that can be made easy by dating apps, she says. its based on a desire for people to slow things down, get to know one another without so much pressure and focus on high quality connection and closeness. slow dating also often means that the sexual intimacy stage of the relationship comes later, after getting to know one another.great sex or great politics? more okc users prefer the lattermelissa hobley, cmo of okcupid tells nbc news better that users are increasingly showing interest in learning what a person values versus what a person looks like, particularly in our politically divided climate.[our question] do you prefer same politics or great sex? used to always [elicit the response] great sex, but its changed now, and weve seen a jump in political terms skyrocket, says hobley, noting that the trend has been strongest among millennials. people are saying, i dont want to know if you have a six-pack, i want to know if you care about climate change. young women particularly are saying do not message or swipe right if you dont [share my politics]. one of our questions we ask users is about voting and most younger people do not want to be shown someone who didnt vote in the last election or who is not registered for midterm elections.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]quality over quantity combats dating burnoutslow dating typically entails limiting how many potential love interests youre engaging with. this can be beneficial when youre feeling the effects of swipe thumb, dating app fatigue or even burnout, notes christie tcharkhoutian m.a., mft, a licensed marriage and family therapist.these are all terms that have developed out of a response to the backlash that dating apps have created by providing an overwhelming number of potential choices, she says. our brain on dating apps has created a binary process of choosing the right person, where you have a few seconds to decide (based on a first impression of a few photos) whether you will swipe right or left. this is more of a reflex rather than a process that utilizes cognitive decision-making to see if a three-dimensional person is someone you can interact with over coffee or drinks, and if there is a connection. dating apps, if not approached thoughtfully, can create a situation where people are overwhelmed by the number of choices, and as science tells us, when stuck in the paradox of choice we often have a hard time choosing anybody.some people do prefer and thrive with this reflexive dating, but many prosper when they have fewer matches and an opportunity to humanize and be more reflective about the process, says tcharkhoutian. slow dating is a way to be more engaged in the process of dating rather than becoming a consumer in a buffet of people where you can pick and choose how much you like people than believe that a relationship is a co-created process between two imperfect people, in which you will change and improve with your partner. when trying to find your match, quality over quantity can sometimes be the name of the game, and what youll hopefully discover with the fewer quantity of people, is that every single person has value and is quality and its just a matter of discovering whats underneath the surface to see if they are someone whose internal qualities are compatible with yours.slow dating is ideal for the busy person who knows what they wantsaiyda shabazz, a 32-year-old writer and single mother of a five-year-old, didnt date for years because she was simply too busy to deal with it. she decided to start dating again recently, and found that a slow dating approach quelled her anxiety around diving into the world of dating apps.i havent been in the dating game for nine years, so i was super nervous and taking it slow really helped me feel less overwhelmed, says shabazz, who intentionally swiped on very few people, took breaks between doing so, and went out with just three people, one of whom she is now happily dating.dr. elizabeth cohen, a clinical psychologist, would likely praise shabazz on her selectiveness and taking the time to get to know someone before sacrificing time on dates. its a confident attitude that every dater can learn from, and honestly, one i wish id embraced in my dating years. before meeting my now husband on okcupid, i went through dates with virtual strangers like a mad woman, desperate to show to myself and the world that i was dating, i was trying, i was normal.i wound up wasting a lot of my and others time just to fill my dance card and mask my insecurities about being alone.when someone is obsessed with dating, with meeting someone, i can tell theyre clinging to it as something that will make everything better, says dr. cohen. take a one-month vacation and go on dates with yourself. if youre afraid of being alone, find out where that comes from. know yourself as well as you can.slow dating means having space and room to think about what is going on, cohen adds  a luxury you arent guaranteed when going on a ton of dates with a ton of different people. slowness is part of every piece of mental health. its about not rushing through life to avoid difficult feelings.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimehow the simple act of holding hands brought this couple closer than everwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.