quick! unexpected company is coming and your house is a wreck. you only have a few minutes to do damage control and dont even know where to start. what do you do first?there are so many scenarios where this can happen, said rachel hoffman, author of \"unf*ck your habitat: youre better than your mess\" and an upcoming guided journal for less mess, less stress and a home you dont hate. she shared the the 20/10 method that can change the way you clean your house with us, and is back with emergency cleaning tips. (and wait for it, what you could do instead.)especially if youre a renter and your landlord needs to get in, or apartment maintenance, she said, you may need to make some fast decisions. or even just i walk my dog and i run into my neighbors or somebody wants to come in and borrow a book, [its like] omg can i let this person in? or maybe youve even given yourself enough time to prepare for a visit, and then youve just kind of left it till the last minute and youre like, this is happening now, she said.make that person a relative (hi, mom!) and it can feel even more calamitous if the house isnt ship-shape. i personally scramble to pick up dog toys and wipe dog slobber off the front door and foyer window if someones coming, but i thought there had to be a quick cheat-sheet for the one thing to clean in every room when you have no time. hoffman has us covered. here are this experts top tips when the clock is ticking.where to start?always start with where youre anticipating youre going to be spending the most time, hoffman said. and dont worry about the spaces they wont see. if its an emergency drop-in guest, you can shut your bedroom door unless its a particular kind of social call. but regular hosting, private rooms, just close the doors because if youre dealing with limited time you dont need to get distracted.kitchensince the kitchen tends to be where everyone congregates (at least at my house) lets start there. your mission here is to clear surfaces, said hoffman.and think in terms of stashing things quickly. toss anything thats trash, and if any dishes are sitting out? get them into the dishwasher, or in an extreme emergency, throw them under the sink.nobodys going to look there, she said. (although i wouldnt be too sure; while showing neighbors our recently renovated kitchen after bumping into them on the sidewalk, one opened the cabinet door in the island  only to see the pan id used to make my lunch id stashed there!) now, wipe down those cleared counters, and move to the next room.living room and dining roomsame as in the kitchen, youre going to feel like everything is a lot cleaner if your flat surfaces are cleared, hoffman said. in the living room were talking coffee table or side tables, and of course the dining table in the dining room. those are the surfaces that tend to accumulate the most clutter and make the room look messier no matter what, she said.the good news is, it may have been a mess for a month and you figure anything that takes that long to get that messy will take a long time, she said, but for the most part you can deal with one of those surfaces in 15 minutes max.dont worry about sweeping or vacuuming, she said. thats not the most immediate indication of clean or dirty.bathroomyou definitely want to give your bathroom a good once over, hoffman said, because you never know when someone is going to use it. want some more bad news? people are alone, the lighting is good, theres nothing to distract you. people look around in bathrooms, its human nature.were going to cheat here because this is more than one thing. you have to start with giving your toilet a quick cleaning because, really, its a toilet. the same as the other rooms, clear the counters and wipe them, then swiffer the floor.now, to keep prying eyes away, close the shower curtain as much as you can because you dont have time to get into a deep clean of your tub, hoffman said.entrywaydont forget the very first thing guests will see. hoffman suggests you walk outside your house and walk back in. see what you notice, she said. if youre living with things day in and out, theres a chance theyre just part of the landscape for you. if you walk in with fresh eyes, theres dust bunnies in the corner, cobwebs hanging from the light fixture.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]bedroomok, say your guest will be seeing your bedroom. in your rush, what should you do there?oh god, put your clothes away, hoffman said. for almost everybody. the mess most of us have is laundry where its not supposed to be. you have that chair or the \"floordrobe\", its been collecting for weeks or  im not judging  months. you think its going to take forever to deal with but [with three loads to put away] i timed myself and it was like 14 minutes. and of course, no matter what else, make the bed, she said. it doesnt have to be complicated, pull up the duvet, smooth it out. it calms the look of the room once its done.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]fake it till you make itive seen a tip on an airbnb hosting advice website that suggested hosts simply spray cleaning product into the air if they dont have time to clean. as a superhost myself with a multi-page cleaning checklist, im aghast. but for just your own home? hey, why not?it does work because we have such strong associations with smell to trick our brains, hoffman said. if youre concerned about how [your company] is going to look at you as whether youre clean, then little shortcuts like giving a quick spritz can come in handy. method brand bathroom cleaner smells amazing. i will fully admit  just spraying it makes me feel better even if im not scrubbing it down. if its an extended visit you want to do the real thing, of course, she said, but for a quick visit theres nothing wrong with a little cheat.and its not just a cheat. when it comes to dealing with time constraints, the appearance of clean is probably more important [than actually being clean] because its going to put you at ease, hoffman said. plus, most of us, after visitors were a little more motivated to go ahead with the deep cleaning stuff because its the things you noticed as you were scrambling but didnt get to.bonus roundif you have time for just one more little thing, make it this: a trick if its not as clean as it could be is to put out fresh towels in the bath and kitchen because that makes things look more put together, hoffman said. those are tiny little touches that may not register, but fresh towels equal a clean place.skip the pardon my mess routineyouve probably heard it  and said it  a million times: pardon my mess. im so sorry, the house is a wreck. its pretty deeply ingrained in most of us, hoffman said. we basically think everyone is always judging us. im a big fan of not having people in my house who will judge me but i still apologize. i wish we didnt have to.well what if we just didnt? i read an advice article years ago that suggested we just stop drawing attention to the mess and making everyone feel awkward, because of course the guest has to counter with a rebuttal that its not messy. ive mostly followed that advice and its been so freeing. except when my house was in literal shambles during renovations, i dont mention whatever state of cleanliness it happens to be in. if visitors dont like dog hair, chew toys on the floor, or evidence that i work from home, they probably just shouldnt visit.the comment though, is so reflexive for people, hoffman said. maybe we can change the expectation that were constantly apologizing for the way we live. theres a lot of shame and a lot of guilt around cleaning in our minds.heres a thought. how about not beating yourself up if you dont have time? she said. because most people are honestly not as judgmental of ourselves as we are. we hold ourselves to a much higher standard. nobodys being as mean about yourself as you are.maybe instead of cleaning we have a glass of wine and relax? honestly, she said, thats ideal.more cleaning tipshow often you should clean your home, according to sciencethe best spring cleaning products, according to the proswhy the 20/10 method can change the way you cleanhow often to replace everything in your bathroom, bedroom and kitchenwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.