you may already be among the cult following of the quirky chain of small groceries stores known for their cheerful, hawaiian shirt-clad crew, but how strong is your trader joes game?if youre like me you may be on auto-pilot when you shop, grabbing the same things every week in a rush to get on to the next thing. what are we missing out out on? i talked with two super fans to find out.deana gunn is co-author of 10 trader joes cookbooks, and shopped at their very first store. amanda hibshman is a culinary dietitian and nutrition expert behind the blog fearless flying kitchen, and hosts a youtube series with her best friend, a 10-year crew member of trader joes.the first rule of trader joes is if you love it, stock upstore fans really love their stuff, and will pile their carts high with favorites. although this only perpetuates the cycle, if theres something you love, better grab a few, gunn said. some things are seasonal, like pie crust and puff pastry (made with real butter), while others get a lot of buzz and disappear fast. i arrived at the wine shop once to pick up a four-pack of their sparkling rose only to learn that five minutes before a customer had carted off every last pack, with no more expected for weeks. now, if i especially like something (currently the cauliflower gnocchi) i have no qualms about loading up.try before you buyyou probably already know about the sample station at trader joes. but what if theres a new product youre interested in, but arent quite sure you want to buy? flag a crew member, gunn said, and ask if theyve had it. chances are they can tell you about it, but better still, they may just pop it open then and there and let you try it. say its something that doesnt lend itself to in-store sampling  no worries. their approach to returns is fantastic, gunn said. maybe you came home with a slimy cucumber, that can happen, its not like an embarrassing awkward experience [to return it], theyre like, sorry about that, sure! even that part of it feels friendly.think outside the box (or bag)trader joes is great at having ready prepared meals already, hibshman said. but you can take it to a whole new level by changing the application.my best friend turned me onto experimenting with sauting their salads, she said. maybe not so much with a lettuce based version, but they have this kale and edamame salad with cranberries and nuts, she said. saut that with with the dressing pack, and add meat to it. boom: dinner. (and conveniently, at least at my shop, the prepared chicken and other meats are just a few feet from the bagged salads.) or roll it up! they have a brand new kale chicken salad, that would make a cool wrap.hibshman raves about their new fresh salad dressings, but dont stop at salads. use their dressings to saut vegetables or marinate meat, she said, or try pouring the miso ginger over grilled pork.its all about the mix and matchthe ingredients at trader joes combine easily, gunn said. they have all these basics that work for quick meal. take frozen dumplings, toss them with snap peas, drizzle with soyaki sauce, and top with already-shredded carrots and in just a few minutes dinner is made, she said. or take a jar of curry sauce, throw in already-chopped veggies and chicken, simmer 10 minutes, and put it over frozen jasmine rice youve heated up.hibshman likes to keep things healthy by mixing things up. the [frozen] palak paneer is awesome but is high in saturated fat, she said, so i usually have that as family meal and have a smaller portion with the channa masala so youre still getting the flavors you love but not getting all the fat. or shell throw in a couple handfuls of spinach into the last 30 seconds while cooking another favorite, the frozen chicken tikka masala, which doesnt come with any veggies. same with naan, she said. saut kale and make it a naan pizza.the early bird gets the cauliflower gnocchiif youve been to trader joes late afternoon on a weekend you know its a bit of a gong show. the best time to go, gunn said, is first thing in the morning when theyve opened, any day of the week. i discovered this trick by accident; the trader joes i shop at is on the way to my kids school so id drop them off at 7:45 and go when they open at 8. that is the best time to shop. you will have this amazing experience where everything is stocked perfectly, you can be one of few people there, have aisles to yourself, you can take your time.shopping in the evening, on the other hand, is not only a little more frenetic, but may mean the thing you are there to buy is sold out, she said.beyond the two buck chucktrader joes bargain-priced charles shaw wine is legendary. but the great wine values dont stop there. be on the lookout for any bottle marked a trader joes exclusive, gunn said, and the trader joes reserve. she likes their zinfandel ($9.99). even wines you can buy elsewhere are priced well, she said. none of this buy so many bottles and get a discount, here. as with the rest of the store, prices are transparent, with no coupons or complicated sale pricing to contend with.the experts top picks (and mine)so whats on the shopping list for these trader joes super fans? here are their favorites and mine:hibshmans picksfresh basil\"they have a great price on basil you get a ton  its the best deal. if you eat salad every day fresh herbs can give it a flavor boost and make it gourmet.\"10 minute (parcooked) barley and farro\"normally whole grains take a long time to cook and nobody wants to sit around waiting for an hour and a half. these are awesome for meal prep  throw them in salad or soup, or saute in some salad dressing to have as a side item. theyre very diverse to have in your pantry when you want to have whole grain nutrition to sprinkle into meals.\"gunns picksfrozen brown rice\"each pouch has two servings, just pop it in microwave. it has great texture. i tried it ages ago, i remember seeing a woman coming out of the store with 20 boxes of the rice. she said its the best and sometimes they run out for a couple weeks so i always stock up because i cant be without it. i was thinking how good can frozen rice be? but its pretty great.\"frozen croissants\"they are great; theres no croissant you can have outside a parisian bakery thats as good.frozen garlic cubes\"each cube is 1 teaspoon or 1 clove. i always put them in when i make dressing or soup. now i dont have to dirty my garlic press and wash it. and its not like garlic out of a jar that tastes stale.\"\"my picksgluten free granolaim not gluten-free but this bag of goodness is for everyone. i eat it with trader joes 2% greek yogurt for breakfast pretty much every day of my life, and nothing else will do.cauliflower gnocchii keep mentioning this because its so amazing. the first bite tastes a little cauliflowery (not that thats a bad thing) and then something magic happens with the next bites; your palate resets and suddenly its just tender, perfect little pillows of gnocchi. its delicious with pesto and olive oil, cherry tomatoes, and mozzarella balls (all trader joes, of course), or topped with short ribs and a charles shaw red wine sauce.better-for-you recipes13 healthier mexican recipes to try tonighthealthy instant pot recipes you make in minutes12 french fry recipes that are actually good for you11 healthy meals you can make in under 15 minuteswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.