productivity coach carl pullein is in deep work mode. his computer screen is dark, his phone is on silent, his email is off. for the next two hours, hes focused solely on the task ahead.its a mode of work known as compartmentalization, where he focuses solely on one thing at a time, he says.in a productivity sense, what it means is that you actually treat different types of work that you have to do as if you have separate rooms, pullein tells nbc news better.pullein, 48, lives in south korea. he teaches english classes in addition to online productivity and time management courses. he says compartmentalization saves him time and reduces stress. heres how it works.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]block out time on your calendar for deep workeach morning, pullein blocks out periods of time  usually between 6 and 7:30 am  which he dedicates to deep work, whether its video editing or writing blog posts.you can look at your calendar and say, today, its early morning for me, and i can see what appointments ive got, and ive got maybe three appointments this afternoon, he says. and this morning, im relatively free to do writing work or video production or whatever. so i can now allocate time this morning to actually getting down to doing that work.turn everything offfear of missing out, or fomo  the anxiety that we are missing out on something big when were not on social media  has made it difficult for the modern worker to focus, according to pullein.a lot of the reasons why our work seems to take a lot longer to do these days than it used to be is largely because we allow ourselves to be distracted by  it could be colleagues, it could be mobile devices and computers pinging all the time  anything like that can just take your attention away from what youre working on right now, and so its really important to just focus on that one thing.to get into deep work mode, pullein says, its important to turn off all unnecessary devices for a specific period of time. if youre a social media junkie, weaning yourself off your phone will be a challenge, he says. he advises shutting off your devices for 15-30 minutes at a time to get started.you will need to start small, say with 30 minute segments, but gradually you can increase that time, pullein says.stop worryingone of the biggest obstacles to productivity is anxiety, says pullein. compartmentalizing your day, he explains, reduces that sense of feeling worried about everything.for example, when you block out specific time on your calendar to deal with a specific concern, you can better focus on the task in front of you.thats where the calendar comes in handy, because i find scheduling things like that really helps me to take my mind off it, he says. if its scheduled, i dont have to worry about it because i know i will be dealing with it at some time.another way to get focused, pullein says, is to ask yourself: is there anything i can do about it right now?asking yourself this question is a powerful way to compartmentalize, he says.you can answer yes, in which case just do it, he says. or no, in which case you have to put it to one side and figure out a time when you can deal with it.once you have it scheduled, you can focus on what you need to do right now, pullein says.if youre doing a very important presentation, you do not want to be thinking about the problem while youre doing the presentation, he says.in other words, compartmentalization is really about reducing anxiety so you can focus on the here and now, he explains  whether youre working on an important project or enjoying your weekend off.the whole process of actually starting to take action on something is what actually can relieve a lot of the stress and that feeling of overwhelm that many, many people feel today, pullein says.how to compartmentalize your day:make the time: each morning, block out time on your calendar where you will work only on one project at a time. shut out distractions: turn off any unnecessary devices that might distract you. if youre addicted to social media, this might be difficult at first. start by turning off your devices for short amounts of time  say, 15-30 minutes  and gradually add more time.ask yourself this question: one of the biggest obstacles to productivity is anxiety. again, this is where your calendar comes in handy. if you are worried about a problem, ask yourself: is there anything i can do about it right now? if the answer is yes, take action. if the answer is no, block out time on your calendar for when you will deal with it, so you can focus on the here and now.more work and productivity hacksuse micro habits to boost productivity and reach your goalshow to use one daily ritual to tackle a big goalhow to make failure a key to your successwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.