cryptocurrencies are incredibly popular right now  so much so that many people are investing a lot of money into them without knowing exactly what theyre doing.so whenever anyone asks me if investing in bitcoin or any other cryptocurrency is a good idea, i just have one question for them: what does the rest of your portfolio look like?thats because if you jump into investing in crypto without having a solid foundation for your personal finances, youre going to have a bad time.in fact, there are five areas that you should focus on first before jumping into cryptocurrencies:paying off your debtmaxing out 401k matchcontributing to a roth iracreating an emergency fundautomating your personal financelets take a look at each area now, and break down how you can approach it.get out of debtdebt is the biggest barrier to a better financial future. 80 percent of americans are straddled with debt in some form or another.thats why eliminating your debt fast should be your first priority  and there are a number of ways you can do it.first, you can pay the minimum on all of your debt, but pay more on the loan with the highest apr since its costing you more each month. youll end up saving more money if youre able to get rid of it first.you can also utilize the snowball method of getting out of debt. this works by paying the minimum on all your debt, but paying more toward the loan with the lowest balance first. this allows you to pay off debt more quickly.this isnt the most efficient way of getting rid of debt  but it offers a huge psychological reward to see a debt being paid off.401k: free money from your joba 401k is a fantastic investment account offered by most companies to their employees. it works by investing your pre-tax income as well as a 1:1 match from your company.this means youll be able to invest even more money into a 401k than you would a typical investment account.lets say your company offers a 5 percent match and your income is $100,000 a year. if you invest 5 percent of your salary ($5,000) into the account, your company will match you that exact amount. of course, you can always invest beyond the match. as of 2018, the contribution limit for a 401k is $18,500.when you invest in a 401k, your money is managed by a professional investment company. they will likely offer you a variety of investment options to choose from based on your age and risk tolerance.once you leave your job, you can roll your money into a traditional ira, where itll continue to grow if you invest it.remember: this is pre-tax. you will be taxed on the money when you withdraw it at retirement age, which is 59  years old.roth ira: the most powerful investment vehicleif you want to invest your after-tax income and not be taxed when you retire, youll also want to invest in a roth ira.this means you can take the paycheck you receive each month and invest a portion of it into stocks, bonds, or other assets, and pay no taxes when you withdraw it at retirement age.as of 2018, the contribution limit for a roth ira is $5,500 if youre younger than 50 years old and $6,500 if youre older. so you wont be able to invest as much as you could in a 401k  but with compounding, youll still make a lot of money.also unlike a 401k, youll have to open up the roth ira yourself. luckily, doing so is simple. you just have to find a good brokerage and open an account. a few i suggest are charles schwab, vanguard and e*trade. once you open an account, youll have to choose your own investment options.create an emergency fundyour emergency fund acts as a financial parachute during the worst-case scenario. if you ever lose your job, the economy tanks or you need medical treatment, an emergency fund can help support you and your family during those trying times.a good rule of thumb for creating your emergency fund is having three to six months of living expenses put away. this is enough money for things like your rent, mortgage, car payments, bills and groceries.remember: youre probably going to have to make some sacrifices while you live off of your emergency fund  especially if you experienced a loss of income.this means youll have to stop getting uber rides, cancel your netflix subscription and get rid of your gym membership.however, you can factor all of those things into your emergency fund savings goals. that way you dont have to sacrifice your lifestyle during the down times.and theres one method i suggest for creating your emergency fund thatll help you save for it painlessly:automate your personal financesautomating your personal finances is a better alternative to traditional budgeting.heres how it works: when you receive your paycheck at the beginning of the month, your money is immediately sent to where it needs to go through automatic systems that youve already set up.heres where your money could go:50 percent - 60 percent to fixed costs: this includes things like utilities, rent, internet, and debt.10 percent to investments: this includes your roth ira and 401k plan.5 percent -10 percent to savings: this is money that goes towards things like vacations, weddings, home down payments and unexpected expenses.20 percent - 35 percent to guilt-free spending: fun money! spend this on anything you want from nice dinners to movies.once you automate your system, you only have to spend one hour each month to make sure everythings in order. the best part: you no longer have to skip your morning lattes or lunch at your favorite deli to save money.what next?if youve gotten this far, congrats! youre ahead of 99 percent of your peers. now you can begin to put your money in alternative investments like stocks that interest you or cryptocurrency, using 5 percent of your income. its your money. youve earned it.once you get your financial foundation in place, you can start investing in things like bitcoin and smile knowing youre well on your way to living a rich life.for more tips on investing, check out ramit sethis i will teach you to be rich, where hes helped millions of people with their personal finance and development.more from bettera guide to buying your first homehow to budget (and get out of debt) if you live paycheck-to-paycheckhow to create an emergency fund in just 90 dayssmart money moves to make now to improve your finances in 2019want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.