have you ever felt a static-like or tingling sensation on the top of your head when someone brushes your hair or whispers to you? the feeling may travel down your arms and your spine, and it likely makes you feel very relaxed. some call it a sparkly feeling, and it might happen when you hear someone crinkle a piece of paper or when someone traces a word on your back.the phenomenon is one that has captured the attention of psychologists and other researchers over the past decade or so. theyve termed it autonomous sensory meridian response (or asmr), though some also refer to it as a brain orgasm.for me, my brain goes delightfully fuzzy. im so relaxed that i want to put my head down wherever im at, says craig richard, phd, professor of biopharmaceutical sciences at shenandoah university in winchester, virginia, and author of a new book about asmr, \"brain tingles.\"researchers started paying attention to asmr, richard explains, in large part because of the boom of online videos of asmr triggers  and the claims of those who watched them.many of the videos show someone whispering, lightly tapping on the camera or a microphone, stroking their hair, folding napkins or showing you a thimble collection. (to those whove never seen or heard about asmr, they will likely seem odd.)it wasnt just that asmr videos were popular, richard says. cat videos have always been popular too. but people kept posting comments online about how asmr videos helped them to relax, de-stress, [and] fall asleep.and that included people who said they had been diagnosed with an anxiety disorder or insomnia, he says. richard is also founder of asmr university, an online resource to teach people about what asmr is and the evidence behind it.but there were obvious research questions here, richard says. is there something physiologically going on? what is happening? and is there a potential clinical use for it to help people with problems like insomnia, anxiety, depression, and chronic pain, as people anecdotally have reported it does?were trying to explain the basics of this, he says  and then how can this be applied as, perhaps, part of clinical treatments.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]the science suggests a brain tingle is a physiological responseunfortunately given how recently scientists started paying attention to asmr, theres still very little data published on it. but the findings so far suggest something is going on to trigger the response.for one study, researchers used fmri scanning to compare brain activity in people who report experiencing asmr with people who dont experience it. the work compared which brain cell networks were active in both the asmr-experiencing group and the non-asmr-experiencing group.everyones brains were in a resting state (as they were all lying still in the scanning machine when the imaging was done). and during rest, there tended to be weaker activity in whats known as the default mode network (which is the one that becomes active when were daydreaming or disengaged from whats happening around us) in the asmr group.we dont know exactly whats going on while someone is experiencing asmr tingles, study co-author stephen smith, phd, associate professor of psychology at the university of winnipeg in canada, tells nbc news better.but the takeaway from these is that the brains of people who are able to experience asmr may be wired slightly differently than those who dont experience it, he says.another study from smiths group suggests that it may even be that people who experience asmr are more likely to have certain personality traits (like being open to new experiences and neuroticism) than those who cant.some people appear to have brains that are organized in a way that makes them receptive to asmr tingles and other people do not, smith says about the work hes done on the topic (noting though that the evidence is all still preliminary because of the lack of additional trials).other research has identified physiological changes associated with asmr that back up the claim it really does relax people.a group of psychologists at the university of sheffield published a paper earlier this year in the journal plos one that reported for the first time that people who report experiencing the sensation actually do appear to have a physiological response: their heart rates tend to slow down. the researchers recruited 112 individuals, half of who reported experiencing asmr and the rest of whom reported not experiencing the sensation and monitored everyones heart rate while watching an asmr video.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]its not just people telling us that asmr makes them feel relaxed  their physiology is telling us the same thing, too, says study co-author, guilia poerio, phd, a psychologist who researches asmr (along with sleep, mind-wandering, and imagination and well-being) at the university of sheffield in the u.k.a noteworthy point about the results of the experiment is that the observed reductions in heart rate were comparable to other tried-and-true stress relief methods, like music and mindfulness, poerio says.and just last month, richard and colleagues published data that shows results of fmri brain imaging scans for 10 individuals (who all previously reported experiencing asmr) as they watched an asmr video and reported feeling the sensation. the parts of the brain active when were socially engaged with others, when we feel empathy, and when our brains reward centers are on, appeared to be active when people said they experienced asmr.probably not everyone can experience a brain tingle (but here are some tips to try)asmr triggers vary significantly, richard says. they can be visual (in that you watch them happen in front of you or in a video), audio (in that you listen to them via recording or podcast) or tactile (in that you physically need to be touched for the sensation to happen).its different from experiencing the chills or goosebumps when you hear a song that moves you  or watch a scary movie because those sensations are triggered by a strong emotional response youre having. asmr is less emotional, and more characterized by that deep relaxation you feel.as has already been suggested, richard, smith, and poerio all agree that its probably the case that not everyone can experience asmr. (based on his work teaching asmr, richard suspects its a significant minority.)but, he adds, if youre curious if you fall in that camp, here are some tips for making it happen for you:1. try it out in a relaxing environmentstress can be inhibiting, richard says. so the more relaxed you are the more likely youll be able to experience asmr, he says  especially to start out with. try it when youre at home, just before bed, he says.2. try it in real-life, tooit also might be the case that you need an in-person physical trigger to experience asmr rather than being able to feel it after watching a youtube clip, richard adds. have someone play with your hair, touch your arm lightly, draw letters on your back with their fingers or whisper to you. asmr is ultimately about that personal connection, richard says.3. be open-mindedwhat works for someone may not be an asmr trigger for you  tapping versus hair brushing, for instance. there are a lot of different types of triggers, different asmr artists, and different styles of presenting triggers, richard says. be patient and be open to trying many triggers to find out which ones do work best or if any work at all.more relaxation and wellness trendshygge: unlocking denmarks secret to happinesswant more self-reliant, responsible kids? try selbstndigkeit, the german way.how the japanese art of kintsugi can help you deal with stressful situationsembracing pntsdrunk, the finnish way of drinking alone in your underwearwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.