giving up the chance to make more than $250,000 a year to instead be the co-founder of a charity startup was the best decision i could have made.im far from alone. these days more and more people, particularly millennials like me, are going the way of social impact entrepreneurship. social enterprises are being called the new black, a new paradigm for business, even a possible future for global capitalism. its little surprise, given that one survey found 94 percent of millennials want to use their skills to benefit a cause.but the rosy picture this can create  getting scrappy, living a pared-down life with more meaning  leaves out some of the big pitfalls social entrepreneurs face. theres a lot that i didnt know before making the jump from investment banking to launching givz. these are lessons ive learned along the way.1. you will question your decision, oftenive often gone to bed filled with worries. and ive had nightmares  recurring dreams that everything fell apart, or a big contract fell through. of course, ive had these worries during the day, too.ive learned to counteract these fears by asking myself one question: if i still had my old job, and was offered the chance to leave it and take over givz today, would i say yes? my answer has always been yes. thats how i know im on the right path.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]2. you will fall into the grass is greener trapits easy to daydream about having no financial worries. im fortunate that my wife has steady work, which has allowed us to take this risk. then again, we have our first child on the way, which of course increases stress.ive taken on a new mindset about money: that its like blood. you need enough, and a little extra in case you need a transfusion. but in general, having boxes of stored blood is not necessary right now. we have enough.more importantly, because of the nature of my work, i get to see every day how incredibly fortunate we are. im constantly interacting with charities that serve people in awful conditions  people in real dire straits. when you see pure gratitude and joy on someones face because of what youve created, its the most powerful reward. always keep in mind the people youre aiming to help. it restores perspective.3. people will think its going better than you feel it isanytime youre able to announce a step forward  some funding raised, for example  youll get lots of congratulations from people you know. they wont know all the blood, sweat and tears that went into it. and they wont know about your constant anxiety and exhaustion.ive learned to play along, and tell people that things are, indeed, awesome. to share the highs, but not the lows. you want people in general to be excited about what youre doing  and for that to happen, you need to project that excitement yourself. if you talk too much about the lows, pointing out how many startups fail for example, people think that you dont fully believe in what youre doing. to grow your enterprise, highlight the highs  and save the struggles for the people closest to you.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]4. celebrate your successesfor all these reasons and more, its important to pause and appreciate all the achievements along the way, both big and small. the first time we sent along a check to a charity that was donated through our platform, we took a moment to enjoy it. and recently, we signed a very exciting contract that can help millions of people donate to all sorts of causes. we could have immediately started worrying about the next steps  how to maximize the opportunity and get the work done  but we took a moment to congratulate each other on the accomplishment.as a social entrepreneur, you have a different relationship to the work. no ones telling you what to do, and there may be no one to tell you when youve done something good. so you have to make sure to own each achievement, and use it to energize you to tackle the next mountain of work.to grow your enterprise, highlight the highs  and save the struggles for the people closest to you.ultimately, building a career around social impact is a win-win. our metrics for success  growing the business; helping more and more charities; facilitating more donations, bringing more attention to social causes and more  involve doing good for everyone involved. its something id never get being a cog in a wheel at a company.as my future child grows up, i want him or her to see that. that you can live by purpose. you can create something aimed at doing good in the world. it takes a leap of faith. but its worth it.more stories about taking chancesdefying gravity: a broadway stars unlikely journey from wall street to wickedflywheel ceo: how i learned to win by failingwhy you need to make failure a key part of successwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.