so youre throwing a dinner party. it seemed like such a great idea when you thought of it: friends, food, drinks, what could go wrong? then you started thinking about what this will actually entail and yikes! how bad would it be to just order pizza delivered or call it off altogether?before you enter full panic mode, take a breath and read on for some tips from experienced pros. toby amidor, ms, rd, and wsj best-selling cookbook author; food writer phoebe lapin, a gluten free chef and author of the wellness project; and james beard award winning chef and author virginia willis, talked with nbc news better to share their secrets to successful  and as low-stress as is humanly possible  dinner parties. were taking a three-part approach in this series, looking at planning, preparing for, and finally navigating the big night.read on for intel on how to get started planning your dinner party.pick a number, any numberfirst up, youll need to know how many guests you can accommodate. is your kitchen small, or your dish collection not up to a large crowd, but you have a ton of friends you want to invite? lapin says theres no reason to fret about this. just invite as many as you want, she said. (if you think you dont have enough space, check out the original supper club from jim haynes in paris; the host packs dozens  dozens! -- of people into his miniscule apartment and nobody minds.)the key is youll go more casual the larger the number of guests.if youre having a more formal seated dinner the math is easy  number of chairs equals number of guests.however, she said, you dont want to be somewhere in between. if you have chairs for 10, you dont want to invite 13 -- you gotta go big or meet your table parameters. and forget about your dish cabinet inventory. with plateware if worst comes to worst you can always buy fancy disposable.whats not on the menu?planning around guests dietary restrictions is up next. well devote a whole article to navigating menu planning when jack sprat can eat no fat and his wife can eat no lean. for now, know that before you even think about what youre cooking, first you need to know what you cant cook.with that intel in hand, its best to find dishes that everyone can enjoy, willis said. i find it incredibly inhospitable to have split dinners, [where its] heres your sad little piece of fruit. its not only more hospitable but less work if you can accommodate everybody.choose a formatknowing how many are coming and what youre serving will help you decide how to serve. if its a larger group with varied diets, there are beautiful buffet menus you can make, lapin said. many times ive thrown chili parties with like 30+ people and you just need two cauldrons full of chili  [one] veggie and [one] not. have apps spread around the house and a salad, and cornbread and lots of toppings.for a sit-down dinner, think a large, slow-roasted protein, and at least another main, plus of course a slew of sides. since were going into holidays, centerpieces like big pieces of meat cooked low and slow over time are great options, lapin said. i love a big roasted pork shoulder that ill just shred last minute in front of people  their mouths water. or a big roast ill carve at the last second.how much do you need? though dietary guidelines are four ounces of meat per person, you should always count on leftovers, amidor said, that you can use to meal prep or freeze. when i do thanksgiving i try offer a pound of meat per person. at non-major holiday dinners where stuffing oneself is a competitive sport, if youre taking about something like a roast six ounces is generous depending on how many courses, willis said. keep in mind though, to get six ounces cooked, youll start closer to eight ounces raw, so think one pound for every two people.one taco bar to rule them alla taco bar was popular as a dinner party solution among our experts.willis likes to do supercasual off-the-stove buffets with tacos and lapin seconded that. i do a lot of taco nights and burrito bars that involve sides and accoutrements that can be mixed and matched so any restriction can be accommodated, lapin said. especially with fillings  a quinoa side can be a main for vegetarian. this approach also lets you delegate, she said. ask someone to bring chips and salsa, and if someone doesnt want to cook they can go to the mexican place on the way there.and having had the good fortune to be invited to a friends home for taco night while we were kitchen-less during a renovation, i can vouch for the appeal of this approach. we sipped margaritas and hit the chips and salsa before gathering around the island where our host had all the fixings for some amazing tacos. so casual, so delicious, and (hopefully for her!), so easy.save your experimenting for another timeyes, its tempting to read up on fun new recipes to try out for a party, but resist this urge, willis said, especially if its not from a source you know well. i was happy to have taken her advice when we recently hosted friends who are newly vegan. i found a recipe for vegan chocolate pot de crme online from a new-to-me blog and whipped up a test batch the night before. it was a definite no-go. fortunately i still had time to tweak it and make a new batch the next day that was a winner. moral of the story: stick with your tried and true.do the math on beveragesif your friends enjoy the occasional adult beverage, a trip to the liquor store is in order. how much should you buy? not to be a buzzkill, but think responsibility here.if theyre driving home, as the host you have to be responsible, amidor said. you dont want to have people drinking and driving. even if theyre ubering or walking, do you want them to blame you tomorrow for a hangover? so on the safe side, plan on about two drinks per person, said amidor.now, if youre going to have a proper adult dinner party usually its like one to two cocktails before dinner, and wine with dinner, willis said. a bottle of wine has about five glasses (or four at my house), so crunch some numbers based on how boozy your friends will get with the meal, and keep things simple before dinner by batching cocktails.and of course we always always have a non-alcoholic option, willis said. that might be a blueberry lemonade in the summer (that guests can add vodka to if they like.) in fall or winter, warm apple cider can be mulled. its sort of festive. and you can always add bourbon.ready? next up: smart tips for organizing and prepping for your party.