so youre throwing a dinner party. it seemed like such a great idea when you thought of it: friends, food, drinks, what could go wrong? then you started thinking about what this will actually entail and yikes! how bad would it be to just order pizza delivered or call it off altogether?before you enter full panic mode, take a breath and read on for some tips from experienced pros. toby amidor, ms, rd, and wsj best-selling cookbook author; food writer phoebe lapin, a gluten free chef and author of the wellness project; and james beard award winning chef and author virginia willis, talked with nbc news better to share their secrets to successful  and as low-stress as is humanly possible  dinner parties. were taking a three-part approach in this series, looking at planning, preparing for, and finally navigating the big night.read on for smart tips for organizing and prepping for your party.put pen to paperonce you have your guest count, party format, and menu in mind [link to first story in series], get out your pen and paper. i know there are apps but you need to look at each of your recipes, amidor said. you need to sit in your kitchen and look in pantry  you dont want to overbuy and end up with three paprikas. to save yourself some time, and maybe even a repeat trip to the store, she said, make your shopping list in order of the flow of supermarket.its never too soon to startthe last thing you want is to be scurrying around frantically as your guests arrive. when you go to a restaurant all of the prep isnt started the minute you walk in, willis said. the bartender isnt squeezing the juice for you when you order the drink. the chef isnt chopping the herbs right then. take your cue from these professionals and get as much work done in advance as you can. because this last-minute stuff will frazzle you, and if the host isnt having fun no ones having fun, she said.with that pen and paper, list for yourself, what can i make and freeze? amidor said. what can i store in fridge for a few days, and what do i need to make night before? even for the more last-minute things, can you get your mise en place, the chopping, cutting, and measuring, done?anything you can freeze, you can do up to two months in advance, she said. come party week, salad dressings last five days to a week, she said. throughout the week make small things, and make salads the day of.anything with roasted vegetables, those can be pre-roasted and if you really want it hot tossed back in the oven right before, lapin added. soups, stews, casseroles are great make-ahead things. there are very few things that cant be made in advance.to help expedite things when you do get down to the last minute crunch, i encourage people to pull out their serviceware and platters and all that [ahead of time], willis said. add a sticky note to the bowl for the brussels sprouts (or whatever) so your partner or whoever helping, when you honey say go get the brussels sprouts bowl, honey knows what that is.delegate, delegate, delegatedont feel bad asking for help. in fact, you totally should. even though lapin does this for a living so has things under control when shes hosting, ive noticed that people really want to bring something, she said. i remind myself its not a burden [on them], its a generosity thing, a way to let them feel like theyre contributing. so make the most of it, she said. people genuinely want to bring something and if you dont specify it will be wine  which is fine and also great, but usually you dont need a bottle per person, so you may as well help them bring something useful.like what? lapin likes to assign finger food and dessert. thats a much easier thing to not make yourself, she said, and it doesnt have to be hard for the guest either. its easy to stop by a bakery or get some cheeses. the perfect dessert delegation is tell someone to bring assorted fancy chocolate bars. shell also suggest salad. ill make dressing and someone can bring greens, and you know what, thats not that helpful but at least they feel like theyre helping. (note to self: dont bring greens to dinner!)one big note on delegating, though. nobody wants to be the one bringing the boston cream pie to a room full of gluten-free vegans. make sure you relay the dietary restrictions and give ideas, lapin said.yes, you can potluck a dinner partywhat if you didnt take everything on yourself? why not?one of her best recommendations for people short on time, amidor said, is i truly tell them to go potluck and i think that is one of the best ways.the host can play organizer in this case, she said, doing online invitations that allow guests to note what particular diets their dish is suitable for, and letting everyone see the menu in advance.or? take another route. my rule of potlucking is see where it takes you, and you know what? if you have 10 desserts thats going to be an adventure, lapin said. theres a weird potluck esp where you somehow end up with the right things. but if you end up with five sweet potatoes its a cook-off!shortcuts are your friendeven if you dont go the potluck route or want to delegate, you can still let costco or your favorite store shoulder some of the burden.wherever you can, get some help, lapin said. and you can be strategic about it. while she likes to prep veggies herself because they look better, if i want to save time ill buy the dip, or you can do the opposite. there are things that can be bought and assembled in a beautiful way  nuts, fruits, beautiful crackers -- so easy to execute if you buy the right thing, and people are usually impressed with it.think about things that really are time savers, amidor said. some place have a large sushi platter that feeds at least six to eight people, thats really fun. if youre going to invest, id rather it be something i cant put together [myself] in five minutes.you can also mix and match, she said. you dont need everything pre-made. think pre-made pizza crust with your own more healthful toppings for pizza bites.and after dinner, theres nothing wrong with serving ice cream and cookies for dessert, willis said. i dont try to pass them off as my own, what she does is give them a boost. the walker shortbread, pop those on a baking sheet and warm them up and the butter flavors bloom again. im in!keep cool and dont worry if the food is tooforget killing yourself trying to get everything straight from the stove to the table. i think a general misconception about dinner parties is everything has to be fired up last minute and served piping hot, said lapin. most of the time food tastes fine room temperature. and some are ideal. grain salads taste great room temp and can be made in advance, she said.if you only do one thing, do thisif youve ever scrambled to tend to the pile of plates after a dinner party you know whats coming. willis left us with this great tip: have an empty dishwasher!