alzheimers disease is the most common type of dementia, and the sixth leading cause of death in the u.s. (the third if youre just looking at older adults)  according to the national institute on aging.scientists know its the build up of toxic proteins and other molecules in the brain cells that eventually start to damage the way those brain cells work that causes alzheimers symptoms. the damage tends to start in the memory centers of the brain, causing one of the diseases hallmark symptoms: cognitive impairment.in later stages of the disease the damage to the brain is more widespread, affecting other functions.while the disease is a devastating, irreversible chronic condition, evidence is emerging that making certain lifestyle changes may reduce your risk  so long as you are working on them throughout your life.we really should start thinking about preserving and promoting brain health in our 20s and 30s, rudolph e. tanzi, phd, professor of neurology at harvard medical school, co-director of the mccance center for brain health at massachusetts general hospital, tells nbc news better.all of that damage that eventually leads to memory, thinking and other problems, starts building up decades before you have symptoms, tanzi says. its never too early to take care of your brain.what works when it comes to keeping your brain in shapelisa mosconi, phd, associate director of the alzheimers prevention clinic at weill cornell medical college, adds that there are many misconceptions around what does and doesnt cause alzheimers disease.an important takeaway she wants to impress upon people is that lowering your risk of the disease is something you should be thinking about not just as you get older, but at all ages.alzheimers disease is not always genetically determined and it doesnt start when youre old. its a disease with many different causes and risk factors, mosconi says. medical history, environment and lifestyle all really turned out to be a lot more important than we previously though they were.tanzi outlines six behavior changes to make that may lower your risk of alzheimers disease in a book he co-authored, \"the healing self\". heres why he and others say they work:1. get your sleepthe proteins that build up in the brain that eventually cause alzheimers  amyloid proteins  are ones that the brain uses every day. the brain gets rid of excess amyloid during the deepest stages of sleep, explains russell sawyer, md, assistant professor of neurology at university of cincinnati and a practicing neurologist in cincinnati who specializes in dementia and memory disorders.so people who dont allow themselves to get enough sleep during the night, as well as people with sleep disorders who dont get good quality of sleep (i.e. those who spend too much time in the lighter stages of sleep), may be allowing too much of these dangerous amyloid proteins to build up. and over years and years, sawyer and others suspect this excess of amyloid is a big part of the reason some people get alzheimers disease.sawyer  who researches the connection between sleep and dementia  points out that studies have yet to definitively show this buildup of amyloid protein in poor sleepers progressing to alzheimers disease. but research does show that the clearing of this protein happens during deep sleep, the build up of this protein is found in people with alzheimers disease, and that people with alzheimers disease tend to report worse sleep over the course of their lives. studies suggest, for example, that neurochemical changes associated with one of the most common sleep disorders  obstructive sleep apnea  may promote alzheimers disease progression (though properly managing the condition may protect against those changes in the brain).2. feed your brainyour brain, like other organs in your body, lives on (and functions properly) because of the foods you eat. the brain uses the amino acid tryptophan, for instance, to make serotonin (the hormone that makes you feel good). the brain uses the b vitamin choline to make the hormones responsible for making memories. and the brain uses omega-3 fatty acids for the actually firing (read, activity) of the brain cells, explains mosconi, who has authored the book \"brain food\" on the topic.the diet delivers the nutrients that the brain needs for everything  structure and function, she says. and accordingly when youre eating a diet that doesnt provide the nutrients you need youre at higher risk of alzheimers disease.the mediterranean and the mind diets (the latter being a variation of the former) are the only two diets that have consistently been shown to reduce risk of alzheimers disease, mosconi notes. those diets are well-balanced diets that promote eating a variety of foods. theyre high in plant-based foods (particularly high-fiber plant foods) such as whole grains, legumes, seeds, and nuts, and lower in animal foods (with the exception of fish).3. moveexercise is good for a lot of organs in the body, but especially for the brain, tanzi says. it leads to changes in the brain that appear to actually protect brain cells from the damage associated with alzheimers disease.research suggests this is because exercise increases levels of the protein, brain-derived neurotrophic factor.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]4. keep stress in checkchronic stress leads to chronic inflammation, which can cause damage to many organs in the body, including the brain, tanzi explains. and inflammation in the brain is ultimately what causes alzheimers symptoms in people whose brains have enough buildup of toxic proteins and other molecules. (a 2013 study established this point, and more recent work from tanzis group validated it.)making time for things like meditation, hobbies and breaks, and tuning out things that you know bring with them worry and anxiety (like the news or emails or social media) can go a long way in helping you take a break from stressors in any given moment or situation, tanzi says.5. learn new thingsdoing things that are intellectually stimulating helps your brain cells grow and stay strong (and continue to help us think)  and appear to protect against the cognitive decline associated with alzheimers disease. learn more about things that interest you and youre passionate about (the effect is even greater if youre interacting with someone else at the same time). if you love classical music, go to a concert or listen to a recording and talk about it with a friend. if you love tinkering with cars, go to a car show.what doesnt work when it comes to stimulating our brains? things like sudoku or crossword puzzles, mostly dont help stimulate your brain, sawyer says. your brain is efficient. every subsequent time you do those more route tasks, your brain gets better and better at them and require less energy to do them (read: fewer mental jumping jacks for your brain).6. stay socialinteract with people. interact with groups of people. socializing requires a lot of complex processing to happen in the brain, which stimulates brain cells like learning does, sawyer explains. those processes help our brain cells mature and stay strong throughout our lives.more from betterwhat happens to your brain when you go on a dietthis is your brain on prayer and meditationhow to train your brain to be more optimisticwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.