so youre throwing a dinner party. it seemed like such a great idea when you thought of it: friends, food, drinks, what could go wrong? then you started thinking about what this will actually entail and yikes! how bad would it be to just order pizza delivered or call it off altogether? before you enter full panic mode, take a breath and read on for some tips from experienced pros. toby amidor, ms, rd, and wsj best-selling cookbook author; food writer phoebe lapin, a gluten free chef and author of the wellness project; and james beard award winning chef and author virginia willis, talked with nbc news better to share their secrets to successful  and as low-stress as is humanly possible  dinner parties. were taking a three-part approach in this series, looking at planning, preparing for, and finally navigating the big night. a dinner party today is a different thing than even a few years ago. a hosts role has evolved, amidor noted. before, the host was there to cook, but in todays world they need to be able to organize and even send out the menu in advance. read on for tips on making it through a dinner party when dietary restrictions, allergies, and other challenges are keeping things interesting.  talk to your guests, stat  and keep them in the loopwhether its fancy or super casual, the whole goal of a dinner party is hospitality, willis said.  and that means making people comfortable, whether thats finding out if theyre allergic to your adorable dogs, or have any intense dislikes. after deciding on guest list, the first thing to do is ask people for dietary restrictions because there are so many these days, lapin said. in this day and age ... its not uncommon to have pescatarian and gluten-free and dairy free [all at the same dinner.] i feel like it makes guests who have restrictions feel more comfortable so theyre not worried about making the ask themselves   you put them at ease.  keep it on the down lowit may be easier to send group texts or emails, but especially when it comes to dietary restrictions, that should strictly be a private conversation, our experts said. in the invite you can ask your guests to get in touch if they have allergies or other concerns, or even get on the phone with them. yes, an actual phone call, amidor said. especially when it comes to possibly touchy topics like, can i bring my little one or my dog who goes everywhere with me?.  save some embarrassment all the way around by making it a one on one conversation if you need to explain that its not a bring-the-kid event but that you can help them find a sitter, or that your building doesnt allow pets. when in doubt, go with fruitdesserts can get really tricky with dietary restrictions. someones lactose intolerant, someones celiac, so offering fruit is an out, said amidor. or, back to delegating [link to story 2], ask ask your friend with celiac to bring their favorite dessert, she said. you dont want to overwhelm yourself with going to 30 stores, so now youve killed two birds with one stone. lets hear it for the kidsif kids are welcome at your dinner party, dont assume your guests know that. ive had to remind myself that  maybe because we dont have kids ourselves  friends dont automatically know its ok to bring their whole family when we invite them for dinner. dont be like me and wait until a couple days before to say, oh, youre bringing the kids, of course, arent you? when theyve probably been scrambling for a sitter because they didnt want to ask. make it clear in your invitation, and it wouldnt hurt to follow up to be sure they know kids are welcome and encouraged. thats a good time to ask if theres anything you can provide to help keep them entertained. ive been amazed at the planning and packing skills of my friends who are parents  they come with a plethora of things for the kids to do  but at minimum i like to have crayons and paper and a game or two on hand (or, hey, nobodys judging here  a room with a tv!).  what if its not five oclock somewhere?booze  at least where  i live, in bourbon country  feels like such an integral part of a dinner party that it can be easy to overlook providing non-alcoholic options. guests may not be drinking alcohol for any number of reasons, and if theyre skipping the adult beverages it doesnt mean they should be stuck with the last case of lacroix you picked up at costco. lapin has one solution when you know any of your guests wont be imbibing. maybe its uncouth but you can delegate that to them, she said, and ask them to bring whatever they want to drink. if youd like to have some things on hand, she said, kombuchas a good one because its fizzy, or some sort of interesting ginger beer or craft soda. amidor likes to serve mocktails in pretty glasses, or even something simple like mulled apple cider or cranberry and orange juice, with fresh mint.  cant we all just get along?whether its radically different viewpoints from one family member to another, or a falling out among friends, its possible youll end up with a group where a couple people arent exactly going to hold hands and sing kumbaya. now is not the time to play relationship therapist. if you know that people dont like each other, amidor said, worst case just do [assigned] seating. and keep them far apart. and bonus round: help a host outif youre invited to a dinner party, and wont under any circumstances eat, say bell peppers (my personal nemesis), dont cross your fingers the host remembers your hatred for the ingredient, only to find a melange of bell peppers staring up from the dinner plate. or maybe youve joined the whole 30 movement and are sticking hard and fast to the rules. speak up, amidor said.  as a guest, approach [your host] and say, im following this [diet], and i want to make sure theres something on the menu. i can give you recipes or i can make my own dish. give  your host a couple options, she said (and make them simple!).do like i doat the end of the day, remember why you threw this party to begin with, and enjoy yourself. after all, willis said, if the host isnt having fun, no ones having fun.       