im a pretty reserved guy. i dress in typical ways, with no desire to stand out. i do my job, then drive home to my wife and kid. im the last person youd expect to suddenly show up one day with shocking, neon blue hair.but i had no choice. id made a promise.i oversee a team of sales representatives at outreach, a tech company based in seattle. thanks to new technologies, weve found that we can hire people straight out of college or from other fields, and get them trained quickly.in june, i had a team of five brand new recruits who had never been in tech sales. we also had an ambitious goal: to beat all previous first-month sales records.this required some kind of special incentive. but i had no idea how to wrangle budgets to get prizes like trips or tickets. i needed to come up with something free, but still powerful enough to motivate them.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]an idea popped into my mind, so i just went with it. i told them that if we beat the record, id dye my hair blue  and not just for a day. permanent dye to last until it grew out.my team laughed, and asked whether i was serious. when i said yes, their eyes lit up.they ended up blasting the previous record out of the water. and while there are many reasons  they worked hard and we built a great process  they made clear that getting me to look like an anime character or stanley tucci from the hunger games was part of what drove them.humor relieves stress and builds teamsthere are a few reasons this idea worked. first, injecting some humor and playfulness into the atmosphere of a high-stress job can be very helpful.sales in particular can be very tough, since it means facing constant rejection. its one of the careers with high rates of depression. when things got tough for our team during that first month, someone would crack a joke about my future look. wed laugh, and the team would push forward.the willingness to do silly things can also help build a sense of teamwork, that were all in this together. richard branson discussed this in the book \"the mind of the ceo\", saying that as the top executive, youve got to be the first into the swimming pool with your clothes on or whatever, the first to let your hair down, first to make a fool out of yourself on the stage singing karaoke, to break the ice so that everybody else knows how far they can go to have fun.risking embarrassment can inspiretheres also something more to it. i wasnt just offering something fun, i was offering to humiliate myself in a way that would last months.the desire to see people willing to make fools of themselves for a good cause is also the thinking behind the viral ice bucket challenge that helped raise money for als research.that speaks to a philosophy ive developed about work in general. ive found that many people are willing to work hard, but few are willing to risk personal embarrassment to achieve a goal. when someone is willing, other people admire that as a form of courage. and they want to see it play out.this helps explain why a united way chapter and signupgenius have recommended fundraiser incentives like get the boss or embarrass the boss. options include dunking them in a tank of water, getting them to shave their head or doing an old fashioned pie-in-the-face. the desire to see people willing to make fools of themselves for a good cause is also the thinking behind the viral ice bucket challenge that helped raise money for als research.pulling throughwhen our sales results came in, our team celebrated. no one brought up my hair, and some of them werent sure whether i would do it.but that weekend, i found a stylist who spent hours putting together a concoction. he bleached my brown hair bright white to get rid of any color, then used a unique mixture to make it the most obnoxious, bright blue he could muster. it took hours and cost $250.heading to work that monday, i was self-conscious and very nervous. but i decided to own it. everyone who saw me laughed  but also loved it.i also posted about it on linkedin. soon, my new photo and post explaining the hair got thousands of views. its a kind of attention i wasnt used to getting, but have found it to be a good opportunity to share ideas. in fact, ive decided to keep my hair crazy blue for the time being.i wear it as a badge of honor. as a sign to my employees that i will pull through for them, no matter what, if they give it their all. and as a message to everyone: it isnt easy to make a fool of yourself. but if you can cross that line, one very few people are willing to cross, there is a lot of opportunity on the other side.take your career to the next level4 easy social media updates that will give your career a boosthow to ask for a raise (and get one)4 key steps to finding  and snagging  your dream job10 skills you already have that can reinvent your careerwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.