less than perfect pie? sub-par potatoes? unexpected relatives showing up? whatever the thanksgiving day disaster, fresco by scottos anthony scotto and dirt candys amanda cohen can fix your feast. their easy, last-minute side dish recipes will make sure you have enough food to feed all your friends and family. scotto shows us how to make an italian rice stuffing with sausage and cohen tosses together a simple-but-impressive shaved brussels sprout salad.heading 2heading 3using rice instead of bread, and adding savory sausage and melty cheeses, gives this stuffing a distinctly italian flavor.horizontal lineyour guests will never guess that it only took 5 minutes to toss together this impressive salad. the shaved sprouts, sweet apricots and crunchy hazelnuts make this starter a real crowd-pleaser.some people are hard to shop for. some people have very specific tastes. and others simply prefer their gifts on the, um, humorous side. this novelty gift guide is for all those people.list types:ordered listitem 1item 2item 3item aitem bitem cunordered listitem 1item 2item 3item aitem bitem cfrom the only \"harry potter\" gift a potterhead needs to the one gift to get people who are perpetually late (we all have that friend), this list has all the funny, witty and unique gifts we could think of.blockquotepullquoteliftoutthe internet is a vast place, with many, many weird and wonderful gift ideas. so, while this guide is a great place to start, if youre looking for something maybe a little less eccentric, browse through our sortable gift guides or our brand new gift finding tool too.all purposesome people are hard to shop for. some people have very specific tastes. and others simply prefer their gifts on the, um, humorous side. this novelty gift guide is for all those people.from the only \"harry potter\" gift a potterhead needs to the one gift to get people who are perpetually late (we all have that friend), this list has all the funny, witty and unique gifts we could think of.the internet is a vast place, with many, many weird and wonderful gift ideas. so, while this guide is a great place to start, if youre looking for something maybe a little less eccentric, browse through our sortable gift guides or our brand new gift finding tool too.happy gifting, everyone!not only should the person you get this for have a sarcastic sense of humor, they should also not mind getting stared (and maybe glared) at from time to time. this hilarious take on a tote bag is bound to get some laughs from any shopping-obsessed loved ones who dont take themselves too seriously.everyone knows a sophia. her feisty, quick wit has withstood the test of time. any true \"golden girls\" fan can recall a savage zinger or two from the matriarch of the clan ... which dorothy did notappreciate as much as we did.the remains of two people were found in structures in the towns of paradise and magalia in butte county in the aftermath of the camp fire, which raged through the wooded area after igniting nov. 8, butte county sheriff-coroner kory l. honea said