the next time youre scrolling through instagram, getting your daily doses of inspo and fomo, keep in mind that behind that colorful grid lurks a dirty little secret. turns out were spending  many of us a lot  in pursuit of the perfect gram.according to a recent chase slate survey, 77 percent of millennials made purchases that they would then instagram, including food, vacations and clothing, and were willing to spend nearly twice as much money to achieve the perfect post ($137) as the general population ($70).this type of spending is, at least in part, a means of navigating a world in which a commonly reinforced message is, i am if i have, explains dr. robi ludwig, psychotherapist and host of \"talking live.\" we live in a world that values what people have, rather than things that actually lead to fulfillment. its a byproduct of a culture thats gone amiss. people want to appear successful and the best way to communicate that is with imagery.one reason millennials may be the biggest spenders is because appearances tend to matter more when youre younger, ludwig says. millennials are more image-conscious, and they grew up watching people get famous for being famous, not because they had talent. so its easy for them to think, if my presentation is alluring enough, ill get opportunities, ill become a celebrity.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]living the #influencerlifea lot of people  known as influencers  make far more money on instagram than they spend by charging a fee for sponsored posts. they most often have followings of 500,000 or more, and are found in all industries including fashion, wellness, motherhood and travel. (nano-influencers, who have much smaller followings, sometimes do the same in exchange for free stuff.) folks interested in becoming an influencer may view their spending on social media spending as essential  the quintessential gotta spend money to make money logic. but thats a slippery slope, cautions farnoosh torabi, financial education ambassador for chase slate. people rationalize it and say, im doing this because its going to help me make money one day, but in the long run thats not a great business plan, if thats your whole plan, torabi says.even if your posts are all expertly shot and curated, its no guaranteed youll be able to distinguish yourself from the herd, given the glut of participants in the influencer space. we try to impress people by staying on top of the latest trends, and then we wind up all living this cookie cutter life, when what we really want is to stand out, says rachel cruze, author of \"love your life, not theirs\" and host of \"the rachel cruze show.\" when were authentic and when were our true selves, thats when we can impress people without going into debt. then we can actually achieve the goal we were working toward in the first place.striking the balancespending money on social media posts from time to time doesnt have to be a bad thing, torabi says. a single photoshoot can yield a wide variety of material, including multiple stories, different angles or outfits and then theres always #throwbackthursday for reviving content you love. the goal is that you make your investment count. keep track of everything so youll know how much youve spent in a given month or year, and you can ensure youre not going over budget. anything that makes you compromise on having a financially secure future is dangerous, torabi says.of course likes dont have to equal money spent. there are plenty of ways to rein in your social media spending while also creating a brand and profile people will be eager to follow. here are a few.1. share more of yourself, not your goods or what you think others wantsocial media can easily cause us to go down a rabbit hole of wanting our real lives to measure up to someone elses highlight reel, cruze warns. if we arent careful, we can wind up chasing someone elses values instead of our own, and the road to comparison always dead-ends in debt, she says. instead of sharing your latest purchase, share whats inspiring you today, or something you think is uplifting or funny.2. share behind-the-scenes contentpeople love to see the process and the messiness of day-to-day life. show your work and be authentic and vulnerable. people dont need filters or the perfect backdrop, torabi says. most followers just want to feel a connection with you. if you can make them feel like youre speaking directly to them, theyre going to be engaged.3. be thoughtful about spendingif youre making a purchase for instagram, stop and ask yourself if its worth it. maybe you should do something not because its going to be on instagram, but because its actually going to create memories and be a wonderful experience, torabi says. if you do share something that you purchase, dont just talk about the fact that you bought it. instead, tell people why you like it, and what you did to save up for it. people want context and connection.4. know that no social media platform is going to be around foreveri dont know what the next big platform will be, but there will be one, ludwig says. when the shift happens, what will you be left with? in other words, your long-term goals (like buying a house, having a stress-free retirement, etc.) should always be your priority. if you want to spend money on instagram, think of it like an alternative investment, like crypto, torabi says. it can be fun, and you might get a payoff, but the vast majority of your money should be going into more solid investments.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]5. take a vacation from social mediaive taken breaks before, and its amazing what happens when you actually experience your own life instead of the life someone else is portraying through a screen, cruze says. if you find yourself tempted to spend money you dont have because of instagram, consider stepping away for a bit, or unfollowing the accounts that may be encouraging you to invest more time and money than is wise.kathryn tuggle contributed to this report.more savings hacksthe one move you can make to improve your wealth and healthhow a do-not-buy list can save you hundreds of dollars13 easy ways to save moneyhow to budget and get out of debt if you live paycheck-to-paycheckwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.