my mother is poor. she is poor in the true economic meaning of the word. nearing 70, my mom lives in government housing, relies on social security payments as her sole income (roughly $1000 to cover rent and everything else in los angeles) and has no savings.i help her out, but not without undercurrents of judgment that can surface harshly. when she wears something new, ill give a compliment and then a sermon on why she should not have spent the money. when she calls to tell me she bought a bunch of lotto tickets, i might get off the phone to stop from asking for the zillionth time, why do you spend on stuff that wont help you in the long-term?i finally have some good answers to this question, along with expert advice for my mother that could benefit us both.when were poor, our brains work in a state of deprivationi was inspired to do some investigating after reading a new bankrate report which found that households in the lowest-income bracket (under $30,000 a year) spend 13 percent of their income on financial vices including dining out, pre-made beverages and lottery tickets. households earning $75,000 or more spend considerably less on these things, using 2.6 percent of their income on them.i reached out to experts in economy, marketing and neuroscience to figure out why theres this disparity. the neuroscientific takeaway alone makes a compelling case. when were financially impoverished, our brains are impoverished in their own way.there is good evidence showing that the state of being poor, of poverty itself, impairs good economic decision making, says matt johnson, an associate dean of undergraduate programs at hult international business school who teaches psychology and neuroscience and co-authored the forthcoming book \"allure: the neuroscience of consumerism.\"research by my colleague jiaying zhao, found that the act of being poor and stressed impairs cognitive ability, johnson goes on. when you are depleted you will always make the more immediately gratifying decision. saving is the last thing you want to do because your brain is unable to ignore prepotent urges to fill immediate need.there a couple different roles at play: on one hand, poverty causes stress and stress can deplete atp molecules, the type of glucose that fuels the brain and the our ability for clear judgments (depletion of these molecules is also partly responsible for hanger), johnson explains. you just dont have the neuroscientific bandwidth to incorporate variables to think of the future and are more likely to think with primitive parts of your brain. theres no evolutionary reason we should be good at budgeting; if anything we learn that if you have a resource in front of you, use it.the behavioral economics model hyperbolic discounting speaks to this phenomenon.if you offer someone $10 now or $12 in two weeks, theyre usually able to take the greater amount later  but when you add a stressor and make them memorize a string of numbers and then make the choice, theyre more likely to take the $10 because their brains are taxed, says johnson.we buy to send a status signal and feel a winsome part of societyanother factor that can motivate us to spend is the need (often unconscious) to show others that we arent just a poor person; were human beings, says jeff galak, associate professor of marketing at carnegie mellon universitys tepper school of business.this is status signaling, galak says, explaining that essentially you make a purchase to show the world that youre a desirable part of it. you may be hurting financially by spending money on starbucks, but theres something inexplicably gratifying about walking down the street with that starbucks-branded cup in your hand and being, whether its quite true or not, a person who can afford the common luxury.we may even gravitate to that starbucks drink specifically because its so much more attainable than say, a tesla or any other extravagance with which high-income earners are associated.if beyonc is walking around with starbucks and wearing a pair of [very expensive] shoes, well maybe you think i cant afford those shoes but i can afford that latte, says daniel fragiadakis, phd, assistant professor of economics at villanova school of business, adding that starbucks is also appealing because, what does a successful member of society do? they buy their latt in the morning.if it makes you happy, theres argument that its money well spentas a marketing professor i struggle with how were convincing people to buy things they dont need, but on the other hand if it brings them joy or pleasure, does that bring loss? says galak. you can make the argument on both sides, but people need to feel happy and maybe buying frivolous things isnt so bad.i really thought about this idea, that maybe frivolity isnt so bad when it brings joy, and it helped me gain more empathy for my mother. shes not just buying that new purse because she doesnt care about money or how hard i work to make sure she has what she needs; shes buying it because shes too stressed to implement long-term judgment, and wants to feel like she belongs in a society that links stuff to worth. additionally, this seemingly dumb purchase is giving her reprieve, however fleeting, from a dismal financial reality.when youre in a state of deprivation, be it financial or sleep, youre looking for anything to break you out of that state, says galak. its like psychological medicine. if i could just consume something to make myself feel like im not as bad off as i am... this isnt a fault. people are in a bad situation and this is one form of feeling better.tips to break the vicious cyclestill, spending when you cant quite afford it can lead to more stress, perpetuating a vicious cycle of spending, stressing, spending again, then stressing more.if you want to make improvements to your spending habits, consider these expert tips:cultivate self-awarenessit is difficult and its natural to feel compelled to buy, says johnson. increased self awareness is really important, and people are generally unaware of what drives behavior. if you know about these neuroscientific workings and social signaling going on, the [behavior] can be alleviated.brush up on financial literacyas a society, were terrible at teaching financial literacy, says galak. i didnt have a single class on that in high school. were just supposed to figure it out. thats a societal problem and its unfair to punish people and say theyre doing a bad job when as a society we havent trained them to do a good one. how can you understand an incredibly complex topic with no training?there are a number of free ways to do this. you can talk with a representative at your bank, watch financial crash course videos on youtube, and search personal finance sites like nerdwallet and wisebread to learn more about money matters on your mind. theres also a plethora of apps to help you track and allocate your money.make a budget when youre feeling your best (and wealthiest)i always revamp my budget when im scared i wont make ends meet. for less stress and better results, i should do this when ive just been paid and am in a good place.just as you shouldnt go grocery shopping when youre hungry, you shouldnt make a budget when youre in a financial crisis, says johnson. budget in when youre most availed of resources. do it when you get paid and have had good sleep, a nice meal and are at your most high-functioning.