charbonnet-labat-glapion funeral home in the historic trem neighborhood of new orleans is far from the first funeral home ive set foot in, yet its the first ive taken in with a clear, objective frame of mind. visiting strictly as a journalist intent on learning about the business of funeral directing, i came with no grief of my own, no tears in my eyes, no gnawing clench of loss in my stomach.i was in good spirits, yet when i sat down with one of the homes directors, 72-year-old renard a. boissiere (people call me nardy, he said genially, or naughty, whichever you like, i was suddenly swept up by emotion. perhaps it was the busying of staff around me as they carried flowers and other dcor for a service scheduled for the next morning. or maybe it was the solemn room of sample caskets id just been given a tour of, or the ornate white stagecoach in the foyer, presently unoccupied but seeming to radiate the past  and future  carriage of loved ones whove gone.but i think it was boissieres story that had me so moved. in the business for over 50 years, naughty (as i quickly settled on calling him), lost both his funeral homes hurricane katrina. determined to continue providing for his close-knit community, he went to work for his cousin, louis charbonnet, iii, president and ceo of the business. though naughty was reluctant to go too much into the details, its safe to say that however challenging the transition of working for somebody else has been, it was the best choice for him.being of service and honoring your communitysince i was a teenager i have been a person of service, no matter what. my dad was the same way. he was a funeral director and i did a one-year apprenticeship for him, boissiere. back then it was much more [racially] segregated then today, but the divide still exists and katrina blew that wide open; it also exposed the poverty. we knew we were poor, but we didnt know how poor.boissiere, an african-american man who primarily works with local clientele, predominantly black, is something of a neighborhood star. when he walked me to my car after our interview, a passersby on the street called out hello or nodded in respect. all his life he has worked with the community to make sure they get the funeral their loved ones deserve, even if it means making little profit. priding his mom and pop roots, boissiere never considered selling his business to corporations despite their interest, nor did he consider joining their forces when he realized the insurance money wouldnt come close to covering restoration of his two locales. he lost his own home, in the flooding, too.corporations price tags can be impossible for familiesi worked for corporate america briefly [in a different industry] when i got out of college, but it wasnt for me, he says. and the problem with corporations in the funeral business is that they dont have a budget, they have a price, and if you cant afford it, youre out the door.tyler carver, a funeral director, vp of the texas funeral directors association (tfda) and co-founder of lighthouse funeral and cremation services, a funeral planning services site tells nbc news better that corporate funeral homes charge between $8-$10k; some of the bigger corporations will charge between $10k to $15k.these high prices arent exclusive to burials; cremation services, which have gained tremendous momentum in recent years, also cost a pretty petty.after conducting an extensive survey, josh slocum found that service corporation international (sci), which owns approximately 2,000 funeral homes and cemeteries under the brand dignity memorial, offered a simple cremation at a 72 percent higher price than independent funeral home, says caleb wilde, a sixth-generation funeral director at wilde funeral home and the author of confessions of a funeral director. dignitys simple burials were 50 percent higher than independent funeral homes, while a full-service funeral was 47 percent higher.independent funeral homes typically offer flexible pricinghow much an independent funeral home charges for services depends on a variety of factors including location, but they tend to be flexible on pricing.ive been in the industry for nearly 15 years and have worked with mom and pop as well as corporate, says carver. mom and pops are very flexible as far as prices go and they meet with the families directly. they go the extra mile to arrange services for families and want to help those who may not have enough money.boissiere declined to get into the details of how charbonnet handles flexible pricing, but sums their approach up simply: we get it done and we make sure it is done how the family wants. recently, the new orleans funeral home made the news for conducting a service where the body of a teenager lost to gun violence was positioned in a chair before a television set with a video game controller in his lap, donning a celtics jersey and with his favorite snacks within reach  a uniquely inspired tribute to the young mans life.funeral directors may be always on call  and the news is never goodrunning a small business in an increasingly corporate landscape is a hurdle for indie funeral homes, but ultimately, thats not their biggest personal challenge: its the distinct nature of the work, specifically the need to be your best, most productive self when assisting clients in the immediate wake of a terrific loss  a loss that can happen at any time of day or night.admittedly, i dont wear a smile when my cell phone rings at 2 am in the morning for a death call, says wilde. even after a decade of being full-time, those midnight death calls still wear on me like a weight. the chaos of death isnt a healthy lifestyle with its unscheduled hours, its highly emotive culture and the demands that come with it; but something happens to me when i see the family of the deceased. one minute ill be tired, unhappy and beaten, and the next minute im full of compassion, energy and resiliency. theres still something wonderful about the service aspect of this industry that keeps me here, that sustains me during the tough hours.death positivity and other methods of coping with mortalitypart of what helps wilde stay strong, is his attitude towards death, one that is build on death positivity.death positivity is a term that borrows from other perspectives like sex positivity and body positivity, explains wilde. it is simply embracing that part of ourselves that we so often deny: our mortality. its also being willing to move towards dying, death and the dead.  being death positive doesnt mean that you wear black all the time and avoid the sunlight at all costs. it doesnt mean that suicide ideation is your go-to for a good time; nor does it mean that you rejoice anytime and every time someone dies.what it does mean, wilde clarifies, is that theres no shame in grief; that we dont have to ignore our grief. it means that i dont feel guilty about my interest in death, nor do i feel guilty when i feel the loss of death. it means that i dont put timelines or stages to my grief; nor does it mean i try to get over or seek closure. grief is not a problem that i have to get over because mortality isnt a problem i have to get over. its who we are. and its okay to be broken.families whove just been through a tragedy can be understandably difficult to work with, and sometimes they take out their grief on the director. for carver, this is just part of what is ultimately a very rewarding job.we have to be a strong shoulder for these families and let them know we are here to help, says carver. there are times when family members in deep pain or feeling hate toward someone else take it out on the funeral director. we just have to be calm, sincere and understanding. and though we see death everyday, we cant be desensitized to it.an enhanced appreciation of life and a deep sense of purposeno matter how taxing their duties, the funeral directors i spoke with never seem to falter in their deep gratitude for the work they do, nor downplay how it has enhanced their own appreciation of life.there is nothing better than a family saying they could not have gone through this without your help, and knowing we could help through the grieving process that is so important, says carver. it does make me love my family more, and make me aware of the day-to-day events and what could happen. even the smallest thing that you think would not be scary  people have passed away from such things. it is shocking what can happen. so i take advantage of every moment with my kids, and it can be hard because were on call 24/7. there are a lot of family events ive missed out on, but every moment i do have with my loved ones, i enjoy.boissiere is quick to point out that this isnt a business for those who want to make big money, nor is it ideal for the faint of heart (you do have to work extensively with corpses), and if youre in the business long enough, youll likely find yourself arranging the funerals of people you knew and loved dearly.none of this is easy, but all of it is magnificently worth it in the end.i buried my mommy and daddy, then my cousins, boissiere says. sometimes its very, very hard. sometimes i cant close the casket. but i have great faith and i know this is my mission and my purpose. this is what i am supposed to be.