we all have our shopping horror stories. as someone who strangely enjoys grocery shopping, i spend a lot of time at my local supermarket, and it seems every time i go i witness some pretty bad behavior from fellow shoppers. ive seen people grab from the salad bar  with their bare hands  and gobble up food without paying for it as if it were some kind of public sampling tray. ive seen people yelling at each other to move in the aisles, or not so subtly sighing and rolling their eyes at the slowpoke in front of them who is ogling the shelves and blocking traffic with their cart.i count myself among the slovenly offenders. i tend to be that slowpoke in the aisles, taking her sweet time as she reads the ingredients on the back of every salad dressing, her brimming cart drifting off into the way of others.survey shows were throwing basic courtesy out the windowa new poll by treadmill reviews considers some of the most offensive grocery store habits, drawing attention to just how bad it gets. shoppers are not only taste-testing products (which 80 percent of people deemed inappropriate  and really it should be 100 percent), theyre parking like maniacs (nearly 50 percent of people say theyve nearly been struck by a car in a supermarket lot), storming express lanes with carts that go way over the 10 item limit and leaving their emptied carts anywhere but back where they belong.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]markets trigger primal needs while also bombarding us with choiceswhat about the grocery store enables such brazen bad manners and entitled behavior? it may in part boil down to the basic, primal relationship between humans and food.if were looking at this from an evolutionary perspective, we are certainly primed for survival and we are also always trying to meet our basic needs (re: maslows hierarchy), says katie krimer, a licensed clinical social worker. one of those main needs is food. even though we live in a country where the options are endless, there might be an instinctual sense of urgency to make sure we have enough food to survive.that primal need gets triggered, which in itself can make us less mindful of our manners, and then youre adding a hectic environment to the mix. supermarkets are generally not calm, soothing places and theyre overflowing with products. so youve got a primal need activated and way too many options to meet that need.having too many options can make us feel overwhelmed and frenzied, continues krimer. we are bombarded from every angle by product information, which is stimulating to say the least. in fact, there can be a paradoxical effect; when we habituate to too many options and because we cant possibly consume all of them, there is a feeling that we never have enough.financial concerns and time constraints can fuel resentmentsome of us get to the grocery store without the worry of being in a hurry, and/or without having to stick to a budget. but this isnt the case for most of us who are living paycheck to paycheck and desperately trying to coordinate work/life balance.dr. sanam hafeez, a licensed clinical psychologist and neuropsychologist, thinks that some of our anger and entitlement in supermarkets may be stemming from a deeper unease, particularly over the rising cost of living.as more and more people see the price of groceries increase while their salaries havent in the last 20 years, they feel uncared for, unsupported, devalued and angry, says dr. hafeez. did you know that today you would need $30 to get the same $20 worth of groceries in 2001? this is fine if salaries kept up, [but] they havent. put these [stressed] people in the supermarket with their kids running around being noisy as they are trying to wrap their head around $5.49 for eggs, and they can easily be triggered. they may also feel entitled to make a mess and sample food out of spite as in, if they have the nerve to charge $4 for a bottle of iced tea, then im not picking up the five bags of pasta that i knocked off the shelf.try these tips to ease the stress and keep bad behavior in checkwhether youre the person carelessly leaving the container of milk in the toiletries aisle, or the person getting worked up by the recklessness of others in supermarkets, there are ways to deal and improve.krimer has compiled a list of tips to help us be better, more considerate shoppers in the fluorescent chaos of the supermarket.1. practice mindfulness before you go to the storebuild some awareness around how being in a store makes you feel and how it makes you behave. if you experience anticipatory anxiety or stress, or know that while youre there you often struggle with dealing with impatience (whether its with your children or with other shoppers), this is your opportunity to bring your anxiety and stress levels down before you go.\"2. practice mindfulness when youre thereif you find yourself getting over-stimulated or agitated, can you pause and take a deep breath?3. remind yourself that this isnt a high stakes situationwe revert back to automated behaviors and were not mindful while were shopping. we tend to go and pick food off the shelves as if its our last meal (and important to validate here that some people have been in situations where they actually have had to be afraid of going hungry). remind yourself that you can come back to the store if you forget something, and nothing will make or break your experience of making a meal.4. do some strategic planninggo to the store when there are likely a lot less people there, or go a little out of your way to go to a store that you know isnt as packed or as overwhelming. have a list with you and commit to not straying from it  then youre less likely to be affected by all the options and taking home a bunch of things that you dont want or need.alas, we cant control the behavior of others, but we can control how we react to them, by taking a pause, considering that they may be having a bad day, and then letting our judgments go.we may also want to take some time in developing camaraderie with store employees. say their names. make eye contact. ask hows it going. tip the person bagging your groceries if thats appropriate  or at least say a meaningful thank you. little acts of connectivity and gratitude can go a long way, and at the very least, theyll probably help you feel less stressed out.shopping tips and tricks at:costcotargettrader joesstarbuckspanera breadwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.