youve picked out the perfect tree and invested in some new ornaments. so you pour a few mugs of hot cocoa, turn on the holiday tunes and get ready for a festive night decorating with the family. an hour later youre still wrestling with the tangled mess of lights that were stuffed in the bottom of a storage bin (and cursing under your breath); your kids have lost interest and youre about to lose it altogether.if this nightmare before christmas sounds familiar, we may be able to help. while we may not be able to save you this year (our advice: toss them and hit the dollar store for a few boxes of new lights), we can save you from the stress next year with some super simple ways to pack those lights so that when you open them in 2019 they will be ready to go  no untangling required.here are three options for storing your lights with items you already have laying around the house:clothes hangeranchor one end of the lights on the tiny hook (used for small straps). then begin wrapping the strand all the way around hanger, working your way down one side, and then back past the hook itself and towards the other end, being sure to keep it tight against the body of the hanger. once the strand is entirely wrapped, secure the other end of the light string on the second small hook. you can store the lights by placing the entire hanger inside a storage box, or by hanging it in a closet.wrapping paper tubeinstead of tossing the tube when the wrapping paper is all gone, put it to work! simply thread one end of your christmas lights down the tube (so that it reaches about halfway down the tube), then begin wrapping the strand around the outside of the tube. (we found that standing and rolling makes this a bit easier than sitting. once you have reached the bottom of the tube, be sure to leave about six inches of the strand free, so that you can thread it down the other side of the tube to help hold the lights in place. feel free to place a small piece of tape on the inside to keep it even more secure.piece of cardboardsave some of those shipping boxes that are piling up on your doorstep this month and give them a second life. cut a cardboard flap from the shipping box. starting at one end, cut one-inch slits into the board, working your way down the side. repeat on the other side, being sure to line the slits up across from one another. tuck one end of the light string into the first slit and wrap across the board securing on the other side. continue to wrap the string around the board. with smaller boards, you may need to double up the strand in each slit, which is fine. when the entire string is wrapped, push the plug prongs into the board to secure.holiday survival guidehealthier sides and desserts for your holiday tablehow to get a good nights sleep when youre away from home3 holiday savings hacks thatll save you hundreds5 cocktail hacks for healthier, festive holiday drinkshow a spending to-do-list can help you save big on holiday shoppingwant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.