netflix subscribers were thrown for a loop on monday, when a rumor that the nbc hit 90s sitcom friends would be leaving the streaming service swept the internet.evidently, fans had looked at the details page of friends on netflix and noted that the content was listed as available only through jan. 1, 2019. they then inferred that this meant friends was being axed from netflix, where its been available for nearly four years.netflix responded to the hysteria with a tweet declaring that in fact, no, \"friends\" was not going anywhere.the tweet was liked over 188,000 times and retweeted nearly 75,000 times, indicating massive rejoice.friends has a universal appeal like no other showi personally dont really care for \"friends\", which makes me something of a social pariah among my peers (im 35, and almost all my friends are fans of the show). ive seen countless episodes (theyre rather impossible to avoid), yet i just dont feel a connection with it and i find everyone very annoying.given that my feelings about this show are lukewarm at best, i was able to view, with an outsiders fascination, the upset the netflix rumor prompted in so many people. i found myself asking, what is it about this show that gives it such a universal appeal and is so relatable for many?i took my questions to clinical psychologist and relationship expert dr. carla marie manly as well as to writer kelsey miller, author of the book ill be there for you: the one about friends, to gain some insight into this phenomenon.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]we relate to the characters neuroses  and can use them to understand our ownmanly, though not much a fan of friends knows it very, very well. shes essentially studied it because clients bring it up so often in sessions.my 30-something-year-old clients often bring up friends, says manly. i have one client who identifies deeply with chandler, so ive had to investigate chandler, as this client is very guarded and doesnt like to talk about much. i know about chandlers third nipple and his effeminate attitude and sarcasm. in a sense, this client is talking about their own issues by talking about chandlers.yes, a therapist is essentially psychoanalyzing a tv character to better understand her patient. i find this astonishingly brilliant (and bizarre), but manly suggests this isnt so out of the ordinary, noting that shell often ask clients who may be guarding trauma or other issues who their favorite superhero was as a child.\"friends\" may not feature superheroes, but it does showcase what you might call super-neurotics  and it does so in safe, jovial way. \"friends\" revels in an environment where nothing crazy is really that crazy, and where no quirk or personality flaw, no matter how extreme, can ever disconnect you from the love and support of your best pals.when people feel like they can see themselves in another person, they feel that they are not alone  theyre not too eccentric, manly says. take joey. hes one that some of my male clients identify with because hes very awkward and goofy. or phoebe  some look at her and see their own eccentricities or their familys. they identify with it and when they do, theyre not isolated anymore. [additionally] a lot of people live alone and dont have a lot of friends. watching friends is way of vicariously experiencing friendship.friends revels in an environment where nothing crazy is really that crazy, and where no quirk or personality flaw, no matter how extreme, can ever disconnect you from the love and support of your best pals.my immediate retort to manly is, thats depressing! as im thinking about how i maybe, sort of have this relationship with seinfeld.its not depressing, manly asserts, because its comforting, and you know what? its better than nothing.friends gives us a big dose of aspirational normalcymiller, who you may call a friends expert given her book on the subject, highlights the cultural pressure points that have driven interest (both old and new).it comes down to this one thing that [media executive] lauren zalaznick brought up to me when i was interviewing her for the book called aspirational normalcy, miller tells nbc news better. television really represents the national mood, economy and political events of its time, and in the 90s, the vibe was this aspirational normalcy and the appearance of attainability. friends is like real life, but a little bit better. the characters have relatable problems with dating, looking for work,and struggling with their parents, but everything is fine and everything works out.and its not just americans who can relate. miller notes that friends, has been broadcast in some 200 countries and translated into nearly just as many languages.it connected so many people and it never really went away, miller says. there was a resurgence of interest around 2014 or so, when the [pop culture] nostalgia cycle hit the mid-90s point, but there was never a time when friends wasnt being aired, and it bled into so many other parts of culture: the fashion, the famous haircut. theres even research that shows it influenced our speech patterns and the sarcasm we use.but beyond all these touchstones and trends that the show so perfectly encapsulated in friends, the main reason the show is such an enduring success is quite self-explanatory  titular, in fact.ultimately the big core reason friends was so universally popular and remains so is the fact that it is a show about friendship, says miller. thats it. the entire concept, the whole show, is about the experience of having friends. everyone can relate to that, yet not everyone has experienced friendship in such a magical style. it also speaks to the times in our lives when your friends took primacy and mean everything to you. thats an era not in the 90s, but an era in our lives, and thats what makes it hit so hard.more from bettercant wait for \"making a murderer 2\"? this is why youre hooked on true crime storieswhat happens to your brain when you binge watch tv6 ways \"this is us\" is basically free therapywant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter.