perpetual problems  every relationship has them, but not every couple knows how to work through them.a perpetual problem endures because you and your partner fundamentally see the situation differently, according to michelle peterson, founder of the marriage blog #staymarried.its one of those things where you bring it up, you try to work it out, and it just stays in your relationship, peterson tells nbc news better.peterson, 39, is the executive director of a nonprofit, and her husband tony, 41, is a software designer. the couple live in somers, wisconsin, and have been happily married for 11 years with three young daughters.like any couple, the petersons experience perpetual problems, but have learned how to live happily in spite of them. heres how.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]they recognize when their relationship is in gridlockif you and your partner cant see a disagreement eye to eye no matter how much you talk about it, youre probably experiencing gridlock, peterson says.i said the same thing over and over again, and hes still not budging  that is a symptom of gridlock, she says.in the past, peterson often failed to recognize when her relationship was in gridlock, believing she could change her husbands perspective or behavior, she says.whats really happening is youre at an impasse altogether, because youre dealing with something that fundamentally youre not agreeing on, she explains.when they hit gridlock, the couple takes a breakif a perpetual problem in your relationship turns into gridlock, peterson says, its important to understand that fighting isnt going to solve anything.if an argument gets heated, peterson says, she and her husband take a break.the rule is simple: when one partner asks for a break during an argument, the other must honor it, she explains. after about 30 minutes, she says, theyll calmly revisit the issue.usually, you can be more clear headed and understanding once youve been able to temper down your emotions, peterson says.get past the curse of familiaritywhen the couple realized they needed a third-person perspective, they began seeing a marriage counselor in 2015. peterson was surprised to hear her husband tell the therapist things she never knew.he shared things that were so insightful to me that i never considered asking about, she says.peterson says the curse of familiarity had prevented her from asking questions that would have helped her understand him better.youre with somebody long enough, you think you know them, and so you forget to dig a little bit or to ask better questions, or to get curious about each other, she says.seek to understand each other betterpeterson says she no longer focuses on solving problems in her relationship. instead, she says she strives to understand where her husband is coming from.the truth is, you live with a person, you dont live with a solution, she says.to better understand your partner, its important to spend quality time with them alone, says peterson.each night, the couple dedicates 15 minutes to talking alone. they go outside on their deck with no electronics to distract them, she says. peterson calls it their nightly debrief.it doesnt matter what the weather is, it doesnt matter how cold it is  if its super cold well just bundle up extra  but we go outside, no devices, just the two of us, for 15 minutes, she says.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]give your partner space to make up their own mindin the past, peterson would automatically assume certain situations were problems. now, she says, she no longer makes those assumptions. instead, she asks her husband what he thinks.im approaching him not like i already have the answer, she says, but [with], hey, what do you think about this? does this feel like a problem to you?for example, the couple recently moved into a new apartment that didnt have a washer and dryer. peterson wanted to buy their own appliances, but her husband saw things differently. instead, he takes the familys laundry to a laundromat once a week on his free time.since her husband doesnt see it as a problem, peterson decided not to push the issue.he needs to decide for himself he doesnt want to go to the laundromat anymore, she explains.she says seeking to understand each other, rather than trying to solve perceived problems, has made the relationship stronger despite their fundamental differences.i dont know any non-corny ways to say this, peterson says, but we like each other.how to survive perpetual problems in a relationshiprecognize when youre at an impasse. if you are having the same fight over and over, there is probably a fundamental difference you simply cant agree on.know when to take a break.  recognize that fighting and arguing wont solve anything. if things get heated, ask your partner for a break, take 30 minutes, and revisit the issue with a clear head.get past the curse of familiarity. dont assume that because youve been with someone for a long time that you know and understand everything about them. be curious and ask questions.communicate, communicate, communicate. its important to take time each day to talk. this gives you an opportunity to get to know each others perspective.create space. dont assume that a situation is a problem that needs to be solved. instead, talk to your partner to see how they feel about it. if they dont see it as a problem, give them space to come to their own conclusion.more relationship advicehow one couple saved their marriage by asking this simple questionhow thoughtful communication can improve your marriage, according to a divorce attorneywhy this marriage counselor says a \"good enough marriage\" is one that lasts a lifetimewant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.