with the holidays rapidly approaching, its time to take a close and honest look at how youre spending your money. for many people, gift-giving is one of their favorite or most fulfilling parts of the holiday season, but it can also be financially fraught. according to a recent survey by experian, american adults plan to spend an average of $846 on gifts this holiday season  and that doesnt count any of the other holiday-related expenses, such as traveling, food, greeting cards, wrapping paper, or charitable donations.whatever your budget this year, the last thing you want to do is waste money on a gift. before you check off everyone on your gift list, you should make sure that the money you spend is worth it  both for you and for the recipient. after all, its estimated that 28% of people returned at least one gift from the 2017 holiday season. thats a lot of time eaten up by going to stores or the post office and standing in line to make returns.here are three gifts that you should skip buying this year, and alternatives to consider instead.1. dont buy: clothing or shoesits already a chore to find clothes that fit you, are in your style, work with the rest of your wardrobe, and look good on you, much less try to do that for someone else. unless youve been sent a specific link to an item along with the desired color and size, trying to buy clothing or shoes for someone else can be a bit of a disaster. many people have holiday horror stories about clothing gifts from well-meaning family and friends.weve had several bad experiences gifting shoes to family members who live far away. the problem is not that the shoes are ugly  its that they dont fit, says miguel a. suro, a florida attorney and personal finance blogger at the rich miser. even if you know the persons size, the fact is that different brands make shoes in different ways, and theres a big risk of them not fitting.consider: store gift cards or accessoriesthat doesnt mean you cant give clothes to the fashionistas in your life. youll just need to take the indirect route. instead of purchasing a specific item of clothing, consider buying a gift card to their favorite clothing or shoe store instead. that way, the recipient can go out and get exactly what they want and what will fit their body and their style so you dont have to do the guesswork.but what if they dont have a favorite store? good alternative gifts would beaccessories, such as scarves, ties, or even watches, suro says. those gifts, along with purses, jewelry, and other non-size-specific items will be less likely to be returned because of a manufacturers rogue sizing whims.2. dont buy: trendy makeup or holiday setsat this time of year, it is common to find special sample sets of trendy makeup colors or holiday-themed products. theyre often marketed as being perfect for stocking stuffers or great ideas for taking product with you while you travel for the holidays. but despite the attractive packaging, theyre not always the best way to spend your money.makeup, just like clothing, is highly personal. even though a particular shade of pink may be the hot new thing, that doesnt mean it looks good on everyone or that everyone wants to participate in the trend. holiday sampler sets are also difficult  when was the last time you actually liked and used everything that came in a themed set? these kinds of gifts can easily just clutter up someones makeup drawer until theyre tossed out.consider: tried and true makeup staplesif your gift recipient loves makeup, chances are they already have particular products they swear by. instead of trying to give them something they dont have, get them more of the products they already love. things like foundation, moisturizer, toner, etc. are used frequently, if not every day, and will always need to be replaced once they run out. taking care of the basics also means that the gift recipient will have more wiggle room in their makeup budget down the line in case they want to chase a trend they do like later on.3. dont buy: the latest electronicsif your gift recipient doesnt need to have top-of-the-line specs for their electronics, it may make better financial sense for you to wait until the new year to drop cash on a new computer or other large electronic purchase.as with many premium high-end electronics, the 2018 models tend to hit better prices when new models are being touted around, said jacob lunduski, financial industry analyst, credit card insider. according to dealnews.com, waiting until after the consumer electronics show in january will be the best time to score deals for the previous models of vr headsets, smart home appliances, and 3d printers.consider: upgrades for current electronicsfor example, instead of buying an entire new system, it may make better financial sense to buy upgrades to improve a computers performance. pc world has a list of 10 surprisingly cheap upgrades to consider if you want to make an older desktop feel like a brand new machine. and while a new keyboard or gaming mouse or monitor might not be the flashiest of gifts, they can improve the setup of the system and the recipients overall experience.the simplest gift is often the bestsometimes, all a person really wants for a gift is the means to acquire something they truly want. according to a 2017 survey by the national retail federation, 61% of people want a gift card or gift certificate for the holidays.however, youll want to do your due diligence if this is the route you choose to go this year. if you are thinking about buying a gift card for someone this holiday season, make sure you read the terms and conditions closely so the recipient doesnt get surprised by fees or expiration dates.another thing to consider is the ease with which the recipient will be able to use the card. they may love a particular restaurant chain, but if the closest location is far away or in an inconvenient location, that gift card may not be as valuable to the recipient as somewhere that is more accessible or could be redeemed online. consumer reports has a breakdown of the pros and cons of gift cards vs generic prepaid cards that you should be familiar with if youre trying to decide between the two.whatever your budget this holiday season, its worth your time to take a moment and reevaluate whether or not your planned purchases are worth your money.