name: eric gonzalesage: 34residence: los alamitos, calif.job: residential certified nursing assistantfamily status: single, no kidspeak weight: 431 poundscurrent weight: 271 poundswhen eric gonzales was diagnosed with hypertension and type 2 diabetes at age 32, he says it felt like a slap in the face. my doctor said i was going to be on pills for the rest of my life. he even suggested weight-loss surgery, he says.after hearing that news, gonzales broke down. i went to my car and cried. i was heartbroken to get to that point. i was ashamed and saddened about the fact that i was in denial about my health. i didnt really pay attention to what was in the mirror. i chose to ignore it, but you cant deny when the doctor tells you these facts about yourself, he says.the health scares motivated him to make changes. i knew i wasnt a kid anymore and it was time to get myself in gear. i had to handle this or pay the consequences down the road, he says.a return to what workeda decade earlier, gonzales lost 50 pounds with ww (formerly weight watchers) and then stopped the program. he thought he would continue losing weight on his own. that clearly didnt work. over 10 years i put the 50 pounds back on, plus another 100, he says. he decided to try ww again.looking back, i see i needed the support of the group and the accountability of seeing my peers each week. without the accountability factor theres nobody to show up to except myself, he says.he rejoined ww in april 2016. when i went in the first time and i stepped on the scale i weighed 431 pounds. i knew i was never going to see that number again. my mindset shifted, and i knew i was ready.gonzales wanted to lose over 100 pounds. but that seemed overwhelming. he set easier, attainable goals to help him move in that direction, like:lose 20 poundsgo down a shirt sizewalk a mile without his feet hurtingas i checked those off it was time to set new goals, he says. the end goal sometimes seems unattainable, but you accomplish each little goal. i didnt think i would lose 160 pounds but here i am. its doable.gonzales likes how with the ww plan, no food is off limits. you work the plan with how you want to live. with a diet, youre usually restricted from having things. i knew that was something i couldnt do long-term, he says.ww allots you a number of points per day, based on your weight and gender. every food has a point value. its up to you how you go ahead and use those points. nothing is off limits. if you want a slice of pizza you can have a slice of pizza. whatever youre in the mood for is doable, he says. i never feel deprived. if i want to go out and have a glass of wine i can. if i want to have a burger i can.ww also includes in-person wellness workshops where members can share ideas and struggles. gonzales likes how each weeks meeting has a different topic. they arent always weight-related, theyre life-related. thats something i really like  its not about the scale, its about every factor in your life, he says.virtual support after a devastating setbackin july 2017, though, gonzales nearly quit the program. his grandmother passed away, and the loss hit him hard. then, soon after, his father was diagnosed with brain cancer, and gonzales quit his job to be by his fathers side.without an income finances were tight, and gonzales decided to quit ww. he shared his decision on connect, a part of the ww app where members can interact. he had lost more than 100 pounds at that point, and people in the group encouraged him not to quit.six members of the group, all people gonzales had never met in person, contributed money to cover the cost of his ww membership for six months. im so grateful to all of them, he says. i could have quit and undone everything.gonzales has lost 160 pounds and he now has a clean bill of health. i went from type 2 diabetes to prediabetes, and now im in the healthy range. my blood pressure is normal and im no longer on medication. im pill-free and healthy, he says.and he doesnt have any plans to end his ww membership. i say now i will be a weight watchers member for life, because i know that once you hit your goal its not over. you have life after that. its something i will always be doing, he says.a more active lifestylegonzales says he doesnt have a formal exercise regimen, but he stays busy. in my former life i was sitting in front of the tv if i wasnt working. now im not comfortable just sitting in the house. in my free time im doing something out somewhere. im not so much looking to burn calories as moving in some way, he says. that movement is more than just a casual stroll around the blockhe has run two 5k races in the past year.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]freedom from the struggles of obesityhealth struggles werent the only problems gonzales faced because of his weight. he says, sitting in a booth in a restaurant was something i was terrified of. am i going to fit? should i just ask for a table?on rollercoasters he faced the same problem. my biggest fear was being rejected and having to get off in front of everybody. i came close to that happening and i stopped riding for a long time. i was afraid. after losing over 100 pounds i gave it a shot, he says. he could fit, no problem.he says, i felt fantastic  i felt like a kid again. its little things like that  being able to live life again.erics typical daybreakfast: a couple of pieces of fruit, like a banana and an apple, and coffeelunch: eric tends to graze throughout the day. he might have a turkey and swiss cheese sandwich on an english muffin, strawberries, ww snacks, hard-boiled eggs, or three-point bags of cheez-its.dinner: chili made with lean turkey, all kids of vegetables, and spices. ww has zero point freestyle foods you can eat until you feel satisfied, and eric uses those foods to create his chili.snacks: he might have a scoop of ice cream if he has points left at the end of the day.eric drinks a gallon of water a day and tracks his intake with the water minder app.a dietitians takeim so supportive of anybody who loses weight in a healthy way, says samantha cassetty, r.d., a new york city-based nutritionist.she says she likes how all foods fit in the ww program. i admire and appreciate and respect that its not overly restrictive. learning how to treat yourself and enjoy your splurges is a huge part of figuring out your own balance, she says.learning how to treat yourself and enjoy your splurges is a huge part of figuring out your own balance.and she thinks accountability and support play a big part in why people do well maintaining their weight loss on ww. thats a really big deal  thats where people often go astray. they get a little out of control and they throw in the towel, she says.she does note that, from a nutrition point of view, not all foods fit equally. points always serve you better when they come from quality, whole-food sources. thats one piece that often gets overlooked. people often save and reserve points for their favorite foods instead of learning how to replace those foods and eat them less often, she says. you can get an equal number of calories from twizzlers or from salmon, but they are going to serve you differently.she also notes that sometimes people use up all their points at the end of the day, whether they are hungry or not. that doesnt always teach you how to listen to your body. there will be days your appetite is heavier and days it is lighter, she says.still, she supports tools that help people feel better in their bodies and lose weight when they need to. eric clearly fell into that camp. if this tool is working, i celebrate that huge success for him, she says.more weight-loss success storieshow a spreadsheet helped this man lose 60 poundsthese two economists used meta rules to drop 120 poundsthe 80/20 rule helped this woman lose weightchanging the way she talks about food helped this woman drop 10 poundswant more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.