u.s consumers are set to spend between as much as $720.89 billion this holiday season, according to the nrf, and while candy may not make up the biggest piece of the spending pie, it will certainly factor in.candystore.com notes that shoppers will spend $2 billion on candy this holiday. the site also did an  in-depth review of sweet tooth preferences by state, ranking the most beloved christmas candies from alaska to wyoming.the sugary favorites vary in popularity from place to place, but youll notice some heavily recurring #1 treats including reindeer corn (aka candy corn with a christmas makeover), candy canes, reeses cup minis, m&amp;ms, peppermint bark, chocolate santas and starburst.we consulted registered dietitian nutritionist suzanne dixon to learn how these candies compare to one another in terms of nutritional value (or lack thereof). find your favorite on our list. you may be pleasantly surprised to find that according to a nutritionist, its not so bad.holiday favorites ranked from better to worst (in that order)hersheys kisseswhen it comes to choosing a sweet treat, fat is your friend. and dixon gives this holiday favorite a thumbs up, mainly, she notes, because they arent pure sugar.they contain a little bit of fat, which means the bodys insulin response after eating them isnt as strong as it would be if you ate the same calories as pure simple sugar, dixon says. fat slows the absorption of glucose from the gi tract and blunts the insulin response to some degree. they also have a few grams of protein, which again, will help blunt the insulin response, especially if they are eaten on an empty stomach.a serving of hersheys kisses is seven pieces, which contains 160 calories, 16 grams added sugars, 9 grams of fat and 2 grams protein. if you stick to one serving, you wont exceed the aha recommended sugar guidelines (by which men should consume no more than 150 calories per day/37.5 grams or 9 teaspoons  and women should consume no more than 100 calories per day/25 grams or 6 teaspoons),\" says dixon.that said, even if you stick to the guidelines, youre getting an awful of lot of saturated fat with these candies. the 6 grams saturated fat is nearly one-third of the recommended daily intake for this type of fat, says dixon. on a good note, some of this saturated fat comes from the chocolate itself, which [some research shows] isnt as bad for your heart as saturated fat that comes from animal foods such as steak and high-fat dairy.so may want to stick with 2-3 pieces when that sweet tooth comes calling. the good news is the act of individually unwrapping each kiss will force you to slow down, eat more mindfully and help prevent overeating.chocolate santaschocolate santas are basically big hersheys kisses, which means they also top the list. dixon notes that milk chocolate santas (there are dark chocolate and white chocolate varieties, but these are by far the most common kind) are nearly identical to hersheys kisses in terms of nutritional value per volume/weight of candy. but brownie points if you choose the dark chocolate variety!the downside of these is [the potential to] eat the entire santa in one sitting, says dixon. if you split santa among at least one or two friends, youll do fine with this option  unless, of course, its a super-sized chocolate santa.reeses cup ministhe other top scorer in dixons book are reeses peanut butter cup minis because, like hersheys kisses, they dont contain solely sugar.a serving of reeses peanut butter cup minis is 3 pieces, which is 130 calories, 13 grams of added sugars, 7 grams of fat and 3 grams of protein (thank you peanut butter), says dixon. if you stick to one serving, you wont exceed added sugar guidelines.but, dixon caveats that the delicious flavor profile can make it hard to stop at just one serving. one downside of this candy, in my mind, is the addictiveness of the chocolate-peanut butter combo. i have noticed, both personally and in people to whom ive provided nutrition counseling, that when you add a little bit of savory or salty flavor to chocolate, people eat a lot more of it, she says. if you can stick to a serving, or even two servings, you will just barely exceed added sugar intake guidelines. but if you sit by the candy bowl and eat ten of these (easy to do for many people), youre really consuming quite a bit of added sugar, total calories and saturated fat in the form of reeses, which isnt good for anyones health.instead of keeping an entire bowl or bag around, take out one serving and then put the candy somewhere out of sight to avoid overdoing it.m&amp;ms and peppermint barkm&amp;ms and peppermint bark stack up similarly: not the best choice in the candy jar, but certainly not the worst.both m&amp;ms and peppermint bark contain more sugar and less fat and protein compared with plain milk chocolate (hersheys kisses and milk chocolate santas), [as well as those with peanut butter such as] reeses peanut butter cups, says dixon. however, they dont provide the intense sugar load of reindeer corn, which people tend to overeat.what keeps these treats from a making the nice list is their usage of artificial coloring. peppermint bark typically contains red 40 (or a similar red color) and m&amp;ms contain a number of artificial colors due to the candy coating, says dixon.though dixon notes that its challenging to prove that the artificial dyes used in these and other candies are harmful to general long-term health, studies have shown that there is a valid allergy concern. in the absence of compelling safety data, i advise people to limit [intake of artificially dyed foods]. if you dont have an allergy, i dont think small amounts are harmful; but again, most people are eating far more of these compounds than previously realized, she says.dixon recommends opting for natural peppermint bark, which you can find on natural candy store, or, if youre up for a challenge, you can make your own at home. this year im attempting this recipe for dark chocolate peppermint bark.[[,\"type\":\"media\",\"attributes\":}]]starburstdixon says that starburst also fall somewhere in the middle. they lack the protein and fat that some other holiday candies contain, which means you are essentially eating pure sugar, plus they also have artificial coloring.what they do have going for them? individual wrappers and a chewy texture. while they are pure sugar, they tend to take longer to eat and people dont usually eat multiple servings in a sitting, says dixon, who surely has never seen me encounter a tub of starburst (i will eat them all). starburst candies are quite chewy and unless youre really focused on chewing them, youre not as likely to go through them as quite quickly as reindeer corn.candy canesat just 45 calories per cane (and the fact that it takes you a substantial amount of time to eat, so youre less likely to overindulge), this isnt the worst choice. but again, candy canes are pure sugar. in addition to the sugar factor, dixon says the other problem is again, the controversial artificial coloring. (though you can find natural candy canes, which are dye-free, at natural candy store.)an even better choice would be to opt for a mini candy cane, which will still give you a dose of minty sweetness but for just 17.5 calories and 3.5 grams of sugar.reindeer cornjust like candy corn, reindeer corn (the yuletide version of halloweens staple), is a polarizing sweet. i, for one, find it disgusting and im surprised theyre not only edible, but enjoyed by many. if youre like me and think these are absolutely foul, then youre better off. i put these toward the terrible end of the scale for two main reasons, says dixon. one, they are pure sugar. two, they are very easy to overeat.but candy corn fans will be happy to hear that, as with the rest on this list, if you stick to a single serving size youre not going to be doing too much damage.they are pure sugar, but a serving size is modest, notes dixon. a 30-piece serving clocks in at only 130 calories, but also delivers 28 grams of sugar.because these candies contain nothing but sugar, you get a very significant, rapid glucose load pouring into your blood when you eat them,\" she says. \"this means you get an intense insulin response, which is taxing on your pancreas and more likely to lead to a sugar crash about hour after you eat them.if you overdo it on the candy, dont beat yourself up, just resetwe get it, the candy bowl at the office can be tempting (especially when those afternoon munchies creep up). if you go a bit crazy with the candy, its okay.weve all had those days when we feel as if 50 percent of our calories came out of the candy bowl. if this happens, dont sweat it, dixon says. this happens, and theres no good reason to beat yourself up for failing when faced with tempting candy treats. in fact, research shows, the harder you are on yourself in terms of your body loathing, the less likely you are to stick to your healthy living plan.instead, focus your energy on making healthy choices moving forward, being sure to drink plenty of water and avoiding added sugars.try a reset for the following few days after candy overload, says dixon. avoid added sugars completely, skip the candy bowl, and give your liver, pancreas, brain and body a break from the candy.what a nutritionist wants you to knowbad nutrition advice dietitians want you to forgetthe best way to lose weight boils down to these three thingswhat you need to know about going veganwhat is healthier: natural sugar, table sugar or artificial sweeteners?want more tips like these? nbc news better is obsessed with finding easier, healthier and smarter ways to live. sign up for our newsletter and follow us on facebook, twitter and instagram.